www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 FOREWORD 

 Welcome to the most sought after 

 direct marketing masterpiece. This book was recently selling for 

 over $900 dollars used—so I decided to re-issue it. It is a real 

 privilege to bring Gene Schwartz's advertising wisdom back into 

 print. We built a wonderful business based on his wisdom. 

 He was a special delight and a treat to know—Gene was 

 6'2" and reminded me of Gary Cooper in The Fountainhead. But 

 Gene had much more charm and wit and a fabulous, unforget-

 table smile. 

 Exciting sight—watching the multi-talented genius's fingers 

 flying over the keyboard creating another brilliant ad. And then 

 he'd sit back with that great smile, read it over and enjoy it more 

 and more. 

 Gene wrote advertising copy lor the best direct marketers 

 in America. And then he published a book in 1964 titled Hoxc 

 to Double Your Child's Grades in School, following up with How 

 to Double Your Power to Learn and then Breakthrough Adver- 

 tising in 1966. 

 He was very clever—he exchanged his copywriting for ac-

 cess to mailing list names and promoted his own books to them! 

 But then Gene had a stroke in 1978 and he had trouble 

 typing . . . for it affected his right side. But he worked and 

 iii 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 IV 

 F O R E W O R D 

 worked until he b e c a m e quite proficient typing with just his 

 left hand. 

 My big idea—Retain Gene as a business consultant instead 

 of a copywriter to guarantee him a regular income. He became 

 very important to us in that new role. l i e helped very much in 

 the creation of the Bottom Line/Personal concept and of our ed-

 itorial style. Awesome. 

 Then there was Gene III, the scientist, always reading the 

 leading-edge science books and belonging to a very sophisticated 

 group that met weekly to discuss the implications of those sci-

 entific advances on society. 

 Finally, there was Gene IV—an amazing talent as an art col-

 lector, together with his wife Barbara, a famous interior designer. 

 They built a fabulous art collection betting on Hans Hoffman 

 Morris Lewis, Frank Stella, Donald Judd and Milton Averv well 

 before anyone else had heard of them. Their first acquisition was 

 by the color-pioneer Hans Hoffman. It took me years to appre-

 ciate Hoffman's work. Barbara also helped me build an incredi-

 ble collection of photographs that are now at the Art Institute of 

 Chicago. On my first gallery tour with t h e m — I discovered a 

 crumpled photo by the Starn twins that had two words on i t -

 Confusion/Order. That is what I'm devoted t o - b r i n g i n g order 

 from confusion. So Barbara and I built a very exciting Lessons 

 in Life collection. I was her first art advisory client. And it is 

 with her generous permission that we bring Gene's classic book 

 back into the world. 

 Martin Edelston 

 Founder and President. Boardroom Inc. 

 Publisher of Bottom Line/Personal 

 January 2004 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PREFACE TO THE 

 BOARDROOM EDITION 

 This book was first published 

 in 1966—what seems to be three lifetimes ago. It was put out 

 bv Prentice-Hall, a marvelous house: it sold onlv a few thousand 

 copies. But since it was published I have had people coming to me 

 regularly to tell me that thev directlv credit reading this book with 

 their making millions of dollars. 

 This is amazing enough, but even more remarkable is the fact 

 that—when I look back on it—not a single one of these people 

 was a copywriter. H e r e is a book that is called Breakthrough Ad- 

 vertising . . . and yet was used bv men who were not in the business 

 of advertising at all, to make more monev than most of us ever 

 dream of accumulating. 

 How did this happen? Whv was a publisher, a financier, a 

 manufacturer of novelties, able to make so very much monev with 

 a book that is about putting sentences together? (The financier 

 told me that, within one vear after obtaining the book, he had 

 raised his net worth from $100.000 to $10 million). Are the 

 sentences contained in the pages that follow actually that power-

 ful? Can they change the fortunes of men so radically? Are thev 

 far more universally adaptable than I had first t h o u g h t . . . so they 

 are no longer about advertising products, but literally about open- 

 ing whole new markets for them? 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 \1

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PREFACE 

 Therefore, eighteen years later, when Boardroom Books asked 

 me to republish this text. I had to study it again, with the fresh 

 eyes of a person who had not read it in all that time, to see what 

 was the real content of my book, and its real effect on its readers. 

 I did. I discovered the secret. And I am using this introduc-

 tion now to admit my red-faced shame. What I had thought I had 

 written those mam- years ago was a book on advertising; what I 

 actually put down on these pages was an entireh' different book, 

 on a far broader theme: 

 There is a way to develop an entirely new market for a new 

 or an old product. That way involves a certain number of clearlu- 

 defined steps. And in this hook 1 show „ou every single one of 

 those steps. ' J 

 As you mav know, all of us—no matter what official designa-

 tion we give the industry we do business m - a r e actually on a 

 deeper level, in exactly the same profession. We are all'simply 

 creating or exploiting markets for our products. When the market 

 is born, our business is simultaneously given birth. When it grows 

 so does our share of it. When it is mature, our sales charts develop 

 heir first aches and pains. And at that point, if we can develop a 

 fresh new- market for that old product, it is exactly as if we 

 achieved the Faustian dream, and enabled that product to drink 

 from the proverbial "Fountain of Youth." 

 We are all primarily conceptual midwives. helping g i v e birth to 

 new markets for our products. All the other functions" we or our 

 business, p e r f o r m - t h e manufacturing, distribution service 

 hnancmg, and all the r e s t - a r e simply adjuncts to this vital central 

 process. 

 We are, in a single phrase, "Market-Makers." We sense each 

 new market in its turn. We test and evaluate its size and scope We 

 gauge its true potential financial strength, and then we focus all 

 the people, all the money and all the desire that makes it up on 

 one ultimate object: our own product. 

 Most of the time, the market exists before our product, and 

 we simply tap its present strength. But, m this era of constant 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PREFACE 

 Ml 

 change, we ourselves mav help give it its first viable financial 

 form. We may sense that people want computers in their homes 

 as well as their offices . . . or want to walk around all dav with 

 music plugged into their ears . . . or would like to spend three 

 air-conditioned hours in a faraway galaxv, battling with light-swords 

 against evil and tyranny. 

 Making a market, then, is not. as I thought when I originally 

 wrote this book, simply a matter of making an ad. It is also the 

 making of a product. And it is the making of a conduit through 

 which that product can be obtained bv the people whom you have 

 made desire it more than an equivalent sum of their money. This 

 book outwardly talks about the sentences that make up the pri-

 mary appeal of that product to that market. But its true and 

 deeper message is found when it is interpreted as a market-diviner, 

 and a market-intensifier. In other words, its message will show vou 

 how to find your "dream" market, and how to drive it into a na-

 tional "feeding frenzy." 

 And I have also made an equally important discovery upon 

 reviewing this book since it was first published. The examples in its 

 pages have grown slightly older, but the principles that these ex-

 amples manifest are timeless. For example, if I were writing this 

 book today, its examples would show more appreciation of 

 feminism, environmental awareness, health and fitness striving— 

 even the blessed sexual revolution. Thev would be more open and 

 more frank than thev could have been then. 

 All this is for the good— but this book is not about revieiving 

 todm/s ads, but creating from scratch tomorrow's winners! This 

 book is about avoiding the need for copying or imitating am other 

 product or advertisement. So today's examples are as "outdated" 

 as those of two decades ago. This book is about what-happens-

 next, and the fundamental rules of making a fortune out of slight-

 ly redirecting that tomorrow. 

 You see, people don't change: only the direction of their de-

 sires do. They cannot be made to want anything, nor is it neces-

 sary to create want. All that is necessary is to be able to channel 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 v U 1 PREFAC E 

 those wants into the proper products that offer legitimate satis-

 faction for them. It takes ten million . . . fifteen million . . . twentv-

 five million. . . fifty-- million . . . one hundred and fifty million people 

 . . . to create a vast market for your goods. But it takes only one 

 slip of paper—or its recitation by a series of salesmen—to direct all 

 those millions of people to your stores, or vour catalogues, or your 

 wholesalers. 

 Not one single thing has changed in that regard since I wrote 

 this book. Nor will it ever alter in the slightest. 

 So this book is not about building better mousetraps. It is, 

 however, about building larger mice, and then building terrify-

 ing fear of them in your customers. In other words, it is about 

 helping to shape the largest and strongest market possible, and 

 then intensifying that market's reaction to its basic need or prob-

 lem, and to the "exclusive" solution vou have to offer it. 

 Ask Rodale Press—for whom I sold over twentv million dol-

 lars of a single book, The Practical Encyclopedia of Natural 

 Healing. 

 Ask the publisher of this book. Boardroom Reports, Inc.— 

 who started out with $3,500 in total working capital, and who 

 will probably do more than 25 million dollars in gross volume 

 next year, with I am proud to say at least a little bit of assistance 

 from me. 

 Ask the seventeen businesses I've started or helped start. . . 

 (Twenty-five percent of just one of them was sold for close to a 

 million dollars in one dav.) 

 These principles work. They discover markets. Thev build 

 markets. They intensify markets. Thev revitalize markets. They 

 perform, in sum, the invaluable function of giving you customers 

 for the products you want or have to sell. 

 And that's what we all need, isn't it? Customers. This, there-

 fore, is a book full of customers—for your products. 

 It is really nothing else. Just customers, by the millions. 

 Eighteen years have passed. Three lifetimes. They've been 

 good years, and good lives. I hadn't read the book since then, but 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PREFACE 1A 

 some hidden part of me had remembered it, and I think it's worth 

 your reading now. 

 If vou agree with me, whv not write and tell me so. I have 

 several millionaires, and multimillionaires, to my credit now. I'd 

 like to make the next one YOU. 

 Please help me. 

 Gene Schwartz

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEDICATION 

 To BARBARA, who somehow, incredibly, still loves and always inspires me. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 

 Creativity Can Be Made to Order 

 If You Follow This Simple Rule 

 If you expect a scholarly tome on 

 advertising, stop here. 

 I am a mail order copy writer who makes his living by pro-

 ducing results—in carefully-measured dollars of profit—from the 

 written word. 

 My income—my standard of living—depends bluntly and di-

 rectly upon my ability to sell. And I have no salesmen to help 

 me; no store-reputation to help me: no point-of-purchase re-

 minders, no discounts, no friendly sales clerks to give mv prod-

 ucts a push. 

 I sell, or do not sell, on the basis of one tool alone—my ad 

 Therefore, I have done a great deal of thinking and experiment-

 ing with these ads. And, since I have had the good fortune to 

 own my own mail order firms for the last eleven years, I have 

 had far greater freedom than most copy writers to put mv ideas 

 to a conclusive test and to see whether or not they really work. 

 I believe, as do many other advertising men, that mail order 

 is the greatest copy writing school in the world. In mail order 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 I N T R O D U C T I O N XI 

 for reasons which I'll reveal later in this book, YOU learn tech-

 niques and approaches to copy—especially new-product and new-

 slant copy—that you learn in no other branch of this business. 

 Some of these techniques I have never seen discussed in anv 

 other article or book on copv writing—and I think I've read most 

 of them. I have explained these techniques in detail in the hope 

 that they will prove as profitable to other eopv writers as they've 

 been for me. 

 Can they be used by non-mail-order eopv writers as well? 

 Most assuredly. J. K. Lasker once said that mail order makes a 

 copy writer, but his real pav-off comes when he applies his mail 

 order techniques to general advertising. I think that B.B.D. & O., 

 Ted Bates, Ogilvy, Young & Rubicam and a dozen other agencies 

 prove this every day. 

 Therefore I've written this book—not from the mail order 

 perspective alone—but from the universal problem of all eopv writ-

 ing: How to write a headline — and an ad that follows it — that will 

 open up an entirely new market for its product. An ad that will 

 give a new product immediate profit: that will give an old prod-

 uct a brand-new slant; that will give a competitively-battered prod-

 uct a new weapon—not onlv to protect itself against its imitators 

 but to actually damage or destrov the loyalty of their following. 

 These objectives cannot be achieved by following somebody 

 else's formula—no matter how successful it was for them. Thev 

 demand creativity Thev demand a brand-new headline; a brand-

 new approach to the market: a literal advertising "breakthrough." 

 Hence the title of this book. 

 This, then, is a practical book, of practical rules that pro-

 duce, and exploit, creativity, and that are meant to pay off on the 

 very first ad. To put them to work, vou start with these basic 

 facts. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 I N T R O D U C T I O N 

 I N T R O D l ( 

 Basic Facts of Life for Copy Writers 

 Writing copy is like playing the stock market, or being an 

 atomic physicist. 

 Basically all three of these professions—eopv writing, spec-

 ulation and science—are exactly alike. The same keys make each 

 one of them work. And if you realize win. vou can double the 

 effectiveness of your copy overnight. 

 Consider these facts: 

 All three of them deal with immense natural forces gar-

 gantuan forces thousands of times more powerful than the men 

 who use them. In science, they are the fundamental energies of 

 the universe. In speculation, they are the billion-dollar tides and 

 currents of the market place. In copy writing thetj are the hopes 

 and fears and desires of millions upon millions of men and women, 

 all over the world. 

 The men who use these forces did not create them; thev 

 can neither turn them on nor shut them off thev can neither di-

 minish them nor add to them. But they ran harness them! The 

 scientist did not create the energy of the sun; hut he can direct 

 that energy into the explosion of an atom bomb. The speculator 

 did not create the enormous growth of the electronics industry 

 after the war: but he can ride that growth to produce a fifty times 

 increase in his capital. And the copy writer does not create the 

 desire of millions of women all over America to lose weight; but 

 he can channel that desire onto a particular product, and make 

 its owner a millionaire. 

 This, then, is the end goal—to take these gigantic natural 

 forces and harness them to our own uses. But how do we do it? 

 No two of these forces are alike. Each is unique; each operates 

 in a different way The same formula, earefullv worked out to re-

 lease atomic energy, fails complete])- to solve the problem of 

 rocket propulsion. The same pattern of investment, that spots the 

 upturn in electronics and makes a fortune, loses that fortune in 

 uranium. And the same advertising appeal, that builds an in-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 I N T R O D U C T I O N ™ 1 

 dustrv in reducing, collapses completely when applied to health 

 foods, even though both advertisements may reach exactly the 

 same audience. 

 Whv? Because no formula works twice. Each and every 

 formula is simplv the written solution to a particular problem that 

 occurred in the past. Change even one part of that problem, and 

 vou n e e d an entirelv different formula. That's why memorizing 

 theories won't make vou a scientist, or studying charts won't make 

 you a market wizard, or rewriting somebody else's headlines won't 

 make vou a copy writer. 

 What will work? Innovation, of course. Continuous, repeated 

 innovation. A steady stream of new ideas—fresh new solutions to 

 new problems. Created—not by the impossible route of mem-

 ory—but by analysis. 

 In afield in which the rales are constantly changing — where 

 the forces that determine the outcome are constantly shifting — 

 where new problems are constantly being encountered every day — 

 rules, formulas and principles simply will not work. They are too 

 rigid — too tightly bound to the past. They must he replaced by 

 the only known method of dealing with the Constantly New — 

 analysis. 

 And what is analysis? It is a series of measuring rods, cheek- 

 points, signpost questions that show you where a particular force 

 is going, and enable you to get there first. It is a series of rough 

 guesses, based on past successes, that enables you to cut through 

 the surface of a problem to see what makes it tick. Analysis is 

 the art of asking the right questions and letting the problem dic-

 tate the right answers. It is the technique of the break-through. 

 And it can be learned—just as surely as grammar, mathematics 

 or spelling. 

 The first part of this book is about analysis, applied to the 

 profession of copy writing. Its basic thesis is this: 

 Everv new market—everv new product—every new-

 advertisement is a fresh new problem that never existed 

 before on the face of this earth. Past advertising successes 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 CONTENTS 

 PART 1: THE BASIC STRATEGY OF PERSUASION 1 

 1 MASS DESntE: THE FORCE THAT MAKES ADVERTISING 

 WORK—AND HOW TO FOCUS IT ONTO YOUR PRODUCT 3 

 What Is This Mass Desire—and How Is It Created? 4 

 Permanent Forces 6 

 The Forces of Change 6 

 How to Channel Mass Desire Onto Your Particular Product 7 

 The Analysis of Your Product: What It Is—and What It Does 9 

 2 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS—HOW TO 

 CAPITALIZE ON IT WHEN YOU WTUTE YOUR HEADLINE 13 

 Your Headline's Real Job 14 

 What Your Prospect's State of 

 Awareness Demands From Your Headline 15 

 The Most Aware 16 

 The Customer Knows of the 

 Product But Doesn't Yet Want It 16 

 How to Introduce New Products 79 

 How to Introduce Products That Solve Needs 21 

 How to Open Up a Completely Unaware Market 23 

 Giving Words to a Hidden Dream 26 

 Exploiting a Hidden Fear 27 

 Leading Into an Unacceptable Problem by 

 Starting With a Universally Accepted Image 28 

 To Project a Hidden Desire 

 Which Cannot Be Put Bluntly Into Words 29 

 Using a Common Resentment or Unvoiced Protest 

 to Capture a Far Greater Market Than the Direct 

 Statement of the Solution of That Resentment Would Produce 30 

 Projecting an Ultimate Triumph That the Prospect Will Identify With 32 

 xv 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 C O N T E N T S 

 Projecting the Result of a Problem in Such a Way 

 That It Will Be Identified With by People Who Would 

 Reject a Direct Statement of the Problem Itself 3.3 

 Projecting the Result of an Accomplishment 

 to Attract People Who Would Be Frightened Away 

 by the Work Implied to Achieve It 34 

 The List Never Ends 34 

 A Final Word on Style in Advertising Copy 35 

 3 THE SOPHISTICATION OF YOUR M4RKET: 

 HOW MANY PRODUCTS HAVE BEEN THERE BEFORE YOU? 37 

 If You Are First in Your Market 37 

 If You're Second, Do This 3.9 

 The Third Stage of Sophistication 41 

 The Fourth Stage 44 

 How to Revive a "'Dead" Product 45 

 Let's Look at an Industry That Went 

 Through All Five Stages of Sophistication 46 

 A Personal Note 50 

 4 38 WAYS TO STRENGTHEN YOUR HEADLINE 

 ONCE YOU HAVE YOUR BASIC D3EA 51 

 5 SUMMARY: THE ART OF CREATIVE PLANNING— 

 HOW TO MAKE AN IDEA GROW 59 

 The Three Levels of Creativity 5.9 

 On Motivation Research and Its Relation to the Copy Writer 61 

 On Expressing the Personality of a Product in Your Headline 63 

 On the Only Type of Prevention Headline That Will Sell 64 

 On the Selection of Splinter Markets to Avoid Competition 65 

 In Summary 66 

 PART 2: THE SEVEN BASIC TECHNIQUES OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH ADVERTISING 69 

 6 INSDDE YOUR PROSPECT'S MIND—WHAT MAKES 

 PEOPLE READ, WANT, BELDZVE 71 

 Desires 72 

 Identifications 73 

 Beliefs 74 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 C O N T E N T S 

 7 THE FTRST TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: 

 INTENSIFICATION 77 

 Thirteen Ways to Strengthen Desire 77 

 Your First Presentation of Your Claims HO 

 Put the Claims in Action 83 

 Bring In the Reader 85 

 Show Him How to Test Your Claims 86 

 Stretch Out Your Benefits in Time 87 

 Bring In an Audience 89 

 Show Experts Approving 90 

 Compare, Contrast, Prove Superiority 91 

 Picture the Black Side, Too 92 

 Show How Easy It Is To Get These Benefits 94 

 Use Metaphor, Analogy. Imagination 94 

 Before You're Done, Summarize 95 

 Put Your Guarantee to Work 99 

 How to Apply These Principles of Intensification to the Campaign 101 

 8 THE SECOND TECHNIQUE OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH COPY: IDENTIFICATION 107 

 How to Build a Saleable Personality Into Your Product 107 

 A Personal Note 108 

 The Roles Your Prospect Desires 109 

 Character Roles 110 

 Achievement Roles 113 

 How to Put These Longings for 

 Identification to Work for Your Product 114 

 The Primary Image of Your Product 117 

 How to Build New Images Into Your Product 119 

 On the Limits to the Images Your Prospects Will Identify With 124 

 On Saleable Identifications Springing From 

 the Physical Product Itself 125 

 9 THE TfflRD TECHNIQUE OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 129 

 How to Make Your Prospect Believe Your 

 Claims Before You State Them 729 

 What Exactly Is Belief? 130 

 The Architecture of Belief 133 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 C O N T E N T S 

 A New Definition of Awareness 134 

 A Detailed Example 135 

 How Belief Was Built Into the Opening 137 

 Goal Conclusions 139 

 The Ultimate Objective 141 

 A Restatement of Our Basic Theory 144 

 The Inclusion Question 145 

 Detailed Identification 145 

 Contradiction of Present (False) Beliefs 146 

 The Language of Logic 147 

 Syllogistic Thinking 149 

 Other Belief Forms 150 

 10 THE FOURTH TECHNIQUE OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH COPY: REDEFINITION 153 

 How to Remove Objections to Your Product 153 

 Simplification 155 

 Escalation 160 

 Price Reduction 162 

 11 THE FIFTH TECHNIQUE OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION 165 

 How to Verbally Prove That Your Product Does What 

 You Claim 165 

 Verbal Proof 167 

 Stage One: Name the Mechanism 167 

 Stage Two: Describe the Mechanism 168 

 Stage Three: Feature the Mechanism 170 

 On the Importance of Mechanism When You Want 

 to Convince Your Reader That You're Giving Him a Bargain 171 

 12 THE SIXTH TECHNIQUE OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CONCENTRATION 175 

 How to Destroy Alternate Ways for 

 Your Prospect to Satisfy His Desire 175 

 What Concentration Is 177 

 Let's See How He Does It 179 

 A Second Strategy 181 

 One Final Word on Concentration 184 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 C O N T E N T S 

 13 THE SEVENTH TECHNIQUE OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CAMOUFLAGE 185 

 How to Borrow Conviction for Your Copy 185 

 Let's Look at a Few Examples 186 

 The Second Way to Borrow Believability 190 

 Believability-Borrowing Strategy #3 191 

 14 THE FINAL TOUCHES 195 

 Verification—How to Offer Authorities and Proof 196 

 Reinforcement—How to Make Two Claims Do the Work 

 of Four 200 

 Interweaving—How to Blend Emotion, 

 Image and Logic Into the Same Sentence 202 

 Sensitivity—How to Give Your Reader 

 What He Demands Step by Step Throughout the Copy 20o 

 Sample Ad #1 206 

 Sample Ad #2 210 

 Sample Ad #3 210 

 Sample Ad #4 211 

 See How the Structure Differs 214 

 Momentum—How to Draw Your 

 Reader Deeper and Deeper Into Your Copy 215 

 Mood—How to Pack Your Copy With Drama, 

 Excitement, Sincerity or Any Other Emotion You Wish 222 

 EPTLOGUE-A COPY WRITER'S LIBRARY 227 

 INDEX 229 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 PARTI 

 THE BASIC STRATEGY 

 OF PERSUASION 

 How to write a winning 

 headline that no one has 

 ever written before 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 

 MASS DESIRE: 

 THE FORCE THAT MAKES 

 ADVERTISING WORK 

 —AND HOW TO FOCUS 

 IT ONTO YOUR PRODUCT 

 Let's get right down to the heart 

 of the matter. The power, the force, the overwhelming urge to 

 own that makes advertising work, comes from the market itself, 

 and not from the copy. Copy cannot create desire for a product. 

 It can only take the hopes, dreams, fears and desires that already 

 exist in the hearts of millions of people, and focus those already- 

 existing desires onto a particular product. This is the copy writer's 

 task: not to create this mass desire—but to channel and direct it. 

 Actually, it would be impossible for any one advertiser to 

 spend enough money to actually create this mass desire. He can 

 only exploit it. And he dies when he tries to run against it. 

 This has been shown time and time again in the automotive 

 field, for example. In 1948, in order to display their rising stan-

 dard of living, the American public decided they wanted a longer, 

 lower, wider car. Chrysler chose to buck the trend; and offered a 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 4 MASS DESIRE: T H E F O R C E T H A T MAKES ADVERTISING WORK 

 fine, functional car—with more head, leg and shoulder room 

 on the inside—but shorter and squatter on the outside. A 

 multimillion-dollar campaign was prepared bv one of the most 

 creative agencies in America. But the results—against the tide of 

 mass desire—were catastrophic. 

 In 1954, cars had become universallv long; and drivers were 

 appraising each other's car in terms of horsepower. H e r e was the 

 rise to dominance of a vast new public demand. The Twin-H 

 Hudson Hornet, the twin-exhaust Cadillac, the Chrysler 300—all 

 in turn exploited this trend, and rode it to gain millions of dol-

 lars in extra sales. The Ford Company decided to plav it down, 

 and devoted millions of advertising dollars to sell safety. Again, 

 the advertising ran into a wall of disinterest: results were non-

 existent; and the next year Ford produced, and advertised, the 

 highest-horsepower engines in their history 

 YVut perhaps \Vie most pamTu\ prooY was the Edsel. H e r e was 

 a good car, backed by a deluge of fhu< advertising, that died try-

 ing to fight the overwhelming switch in demand to a cheap, 

 simple, inexpensive-to-run compact car. 

 Let me repeat. This mass desire must already be there. It 

 must already exist. You cannot create it. and vou cannot fight it. 

 But you can—and must—direct it, channel it. focus it onto your 

 particular product. 

 What Is This Mass D e s i r e — a n d H o w Is It Created? 

 We can define this Mass Desire quite simply. It is the pub- 

 lic spread of a private want. 

 Advertising is a business of statistics. We deal with percent-

 ages of population. We address our ads to individuals; and yet 

 the success of our advertising depends on thousands, or even mil-

 lions, of these individuals sharing the same response to these 

 ads—the response of wanting our product enough to pav us the 

 price we ask for it. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 MASS D E S I R E : T H E F O R C E T H A T MAKES ADVERTISING WORK 5 

 Before these individuals can share this buying response, 

 they must first share the desire upon which our ad is based. 

 Privately, each of them wants the same thing. Puhliclx. there 

 are enough of t h e m to repay us the cost of advertising, manu-

 facturing and selling, plus a profit. It is the moment alien a pri- 

 vate desire is shared by a statistically significant number of 

 people, large enough to profitably repay selling these people, 

 that a market is born. This market mav consist of a desire shared 

 by only a few thousand people, such as the urge to own fine 

 antiques. Or it may be shared by tens of millions, as the desire 

 to lose weight. But it is there, demanding to be satisfied, wait-

 ing only for the information that will direct it onto a particular 

 product. 

 Since these mass desires are shared bv millions of people. 

 they take years to develop, and thev are created b\ social, eco-

 nomic and technological forces far greater than advertising itself 

 can command. It is this fact, when used correctly that gives ad-

 vertising its enormous potential for profit. Bv simplv directing 

 this gigantic, already-existing mass desire—rather than being re-

 quired to create it— advertising thus commands an economic force 

 hundreds of times more poiveifnl Hum the mere number of dol- 

 lars that the advertiser can spend on it. This is the Amplification 

 Effect of successful advertising—the reason that $1 spent on such 

 advertising can create 850 or even SI00 in sales. 

 But this Amplification Effect takes place only when advertis-

 ing exploits already-existing desire. When it tries to create this de-

 sire, it is no longer advertising but education. And, as education. 

 it can produce at best only one dollar in sales for every dollar 

 spent on advertising. No single advertiser can afford to educate 

 the American public. He must rely on forces far greater than any 

 advertising budget to build this mass desire. And then he can 

 make those forces work for him—by directing that desire onto his 

 particular product. 

 What are these nation-wide forces that create this mass 

 desire? There are many of them. But they fall into two general 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 6 

 MASS D E S I R E : T H E F O R C E THAT MAKES ADVERTISING WORK 

 categories—each presenting its distinct problem to the copy writer. 

 Here are these two categories, with a few specific examples of 

 each. 

 1. Permanent Forces 

 Mass Instinct. The desire of women to be attractive, or men 

 to be virile, or men and women both to keep their health. In 

 this case, the instinct never fades—the desire never changes. The 

 copy writer's problem here is not to pick out the trend—it is 

 there for everyone to see. His job is to distinguish his product 

 from the others that were there before it—to create a fresh ap-

 peal—to build a stronger believabilitv—to shift desire from the 

 fulfillment offered by one product to that offered bv another. 

 How this is done, we shall see in a moment. 

 A mass technological problem. Bad television reception, or 

 corroding automobile mufflers, or the time it takes for aspirin to 

 bring relief. Until the problem is finallv solved, the customers 

 will buy and try—buy and try again. And here the copy writer 

 has the same problem—to offer the same claim of relief as his 

 competitors, but offer it in a new way. 

 2. The Forces of Change 

 The beginning, the fulfillment, and the reversal of a trend. 

 Style. The sudden mass decision to show off a pay raise bv in-

 stalling a swimming pool in the back yard, instead of buying a 

 bigger car. The horsepower appeal of the Fifties, and its sudden 

 subordination to gas economy. Here the copv writer is dealing 

 with the straws in the wind that may indicate a hurricane. Here 

 he needs sensitivity, foresight, intuition. He must be able to see 

 and catch the rising tide when it's almost imperceptible—sense 

 which of the several appeals that are built into his product he 

 should stress at any particular moment, and when to shift to an-

 other—and, always, how to be there first. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 MASS D E S I R E : T H E F O R C E T H A T MAKES A D V E R T I S I N G W O R K 

 Mass Education. The school primer and the movie screen. 

 The tastes and appearances of society women, television stars, 

 presidential candidates, trickling down to every hamlet in 

 America. Group pressure; back-yard gossip; community product 

 pioneers. And equally important, the sum total of all advertis-

 ing—in its unconscious, unplanned and overall effect of multi-

 plying people's dreams and desires, and thus raising their stan-

 dard of living. Here again the problem is timing. When does the 

 shift become statistically significant? When do enough people make 

 the change? When should the automotive powerhouse, for ex-

 ample, change its image to become the common man's gas saver? 

 The copy writer is faced with a society containing dozens— 

 even hundreds—of these already-existing mass desires. His first 

 joh therefore is to detect them —inventory them—chart their force 

 and direction. This is a study that will occupy part of every work-

 ing dav for the rest of his life. 

 His second job is to harness his products onto their backs. 

 He does this in this wav: 

 How to Channel Mass Desire 

 Onto Your Particular Product 

 The copy writer in his work uses three tools: his own knowl-

 edge of people's hopes, dreams, desires and emotions; his client's 

 product; and the advertising message, which connects the two. 

 The copy writer performs his work in three stages. In gen-

 eral, thev go something like this: 

 1. Choose the most powerful desire that can possibly he ap- 

 plied to your product. 

 Every mass desire has three vital dimensions. The first is ur-

 gency, intensity, degree of demand to be satisfied. For example, 

 constant arthritic pains compared to a minor headache. The sec-

 ond dimension is staving power, degree of repetition, the inabil-

 ity to become satiated. For example, raw hunger compared to a 

 craving for gourmet foods. And the third dimension is scope— 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 ft> MASS D E S I R E : T H E F O R C E THAT MAKES ADVERTISING WORK 

 the number of people who share this desire. For example, the 

 number of men willing to pay $10 for an automotive accessorv 

 that saves gas—as compared to those willing to pav the same 

 price for one that merely prevents future repair bills. 

 Every product appeals to two, three or four of these mass 

 desires. But only one can predominate; onlv one can reach out 

 through your headline to your customer. Only one is the key that 

 unlocks the maximum economic power at the particular time your 

 advertisement is published. Your choice among these alternate de- 

 sires is the most important step yon will take in writing your ad. 

 If it is wrong, nothing else that you do in the ad will matter. This 

 choice is embodied in your headline. It is for this reason that we 

 spend so many chapters on headlines later on. 

 To sum up the first stage then, you trv to choose the mass 

 desire that gives you the most power in all three dimensions. You 

 try to tap a single overwhelming desire existing today in the hearts 

 and minds of millions of people who are actively seeking to sat-

 isfy it at this verv moment. 

 2. Acknowledge that desire — reinforce it — and/or offer the 

 means to satisfy it — in a single statement in the headline of 

 your ad. 

 This headline is the bridge between vour prospect and your 

 product. It touches your prospect at the point of awareness that 

 he has arrived at today. If he is aware of vour product, and re-

 alizes that it can satisfy his desire, vour headline starts with vour 

 product. If he is not aware of your product, but only of the de-

 sire itself, your headline starts with the desire. And, if he is not 

 yet aware of what he really seeks, but is concerned only with a 

 general problem, your headline starts with that problem and crys-

 tallizes it into a specific need. 

 In any case, your headline—though it mav never mention 

 your product—is the first vital step in recognizing this mass de-

 sire—justifying and intensifying it—and directing its solution along 

 one specific path. 

 3. And then you take the series of performances that are 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 MASS DESIRE: T H E F O R C E T H A T MAKES ADVERTISING WORK 9 

 built into your product — what your product does — and you show 

 your prospect how these product performances inevitably satisfy 

 that desire. Here's how: 

 The Analysis of Your Product: 

 What It Is—and What It D o e s 

 In reality, every product vou are given to sell is actually two 

 products. One of them is the physical product—the steel, glass, 

 paper or tobacco that the manufacturer has shaped into a par-

 ticular pattern, of which he is justly proud. The other is the func- 

 tional product—the product in action—the series of benefits that 

 vour product performs for vour consumer, and on the basis of 

 which he buys vour product. 

 The physical product does not sell. People do not buy the 

 steel in a car, the glass in a vase, the tobacco in a cigarette, or 

 the paper in a book. 

 The physical part of your product is of value only because 

 it enables your product to do things for people. T h e important 

 part of your product is what it does. The rest—the steel skele-

 ton—the chrome or metal case that vou actually deliver to your 

 customer—is only your excuse for charging them your price. What 

 they are reallv paying you for is what the product will do. 

 No physical part of vour product can ever become a head-

 line. No one will buy the size of vour clients plant, the weight 

 of vour client's steel, the care of vour client's construction. All 

 these facts can only be used, later on. to document and reinforce 

 the primary performance that vou promise your reader in your 

 headline, in the following wavs: 

 By justifying your price. This is the common-sense theory 

 that the longer the car, the more tubes in the television set, the 

 more stitches per inch in the suit, then the greater the n u m b e r 

 of dollars your product can command—if that product first de-

 livers the performance that your prospect demands. 

 By documenting the quality of your performance. Tell your 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 0 MASS D E S I R E : T H E F O R C E T H A T MAKES ADVERTISING W O R K 

 prospect the weight of steel in vour car's door, and he's more 

 likely to believe that your car will protect his life if he should 

 have an accident on the highway. Tell vour prospect the number 

 of times your plant removes the impurities in vour face cream, 

 and she's more likely to believe that vour cream will remove the 

 impurities in her skin. 

 By assuring your prospect that that performance will con- 

 tinue throughout the years. Ceramic mufflers mean no repair bills 

 for the life of your car. Chemically-protected paper means you 

 can hand your prize books down to vour children. Quick-frozen 

 food means vou can retain taste and vitamins for months after 

 your purchase. 

 By sharpening the reader's mental picture of that perfor- 

 mance. The Rolls-Royce must give vou perfect riding silence be-

 cause every metal part of the chassis is shielded from every other 

 metal part by a protective coat of rubber. Helena Rubenstein's 

 new face cream must make your skin look younger because it 

 contains the placenta of living animals. 

 And, above all, by giving your product's claim of performance 

 afresh new basis for believability. This is the most important use 

 of the physical product in fields where a new firm or product is 

 attempting to invade an established Mass Instinct field. Others 

 have made the same claim before. Your product, in order to pull 

 sales awav from them, must introduce a new mechanism that per-

 forms the claim, or a new quality that assures its performance, 

 or a new freedom from old limitations that improves the perfor-

 mance. This is the point of difference—often conceived by the 

 copy writer, and built bv the manufacturer into the product at 

 his recommendation. We shall discuss this point of difference 

 quite thoroughly in the next few chapters. 

 So much for the physical product. It is always subordinated 

 to the functional product—the product in action—what the prod-

 uct does. 

 It is the performance of your product, satisfying the mass 

 desire of your market, that provides the selling power of your ad. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 MASS D E S I R E : T H E F O R C E T H A T MAKES ADVERTISING W O R K 

 11 

 Your first task, then, in studying your product, is to list the 

 number of different performances it contains—to group these 

 performances against the mass desires that each of them satis-

 fies—and then to feature the one performance that will harness 

 the greatest sales power onto vour product at that particular time. 

 Take the automobile, for example. Every automobile offers 

 its prospective owner several different and distinct sets of 

 performances: 

 It offers him transportation. The ability to carry himself, his 

 family, his luggage, and perhaps tin the case of station wagons) 

 his pets and his furniture from place to place. 

 It offers him dependability. The freedom from breakdown, 

 stalling, poor performance, repair bills, embarrassment and incon-

 venience. 

 It offers him economy. Inexpensive transportation: savings in 

 both gas and oil; freedom from repair bills, seen this time from 

 the point of view of the pocket book: durability high trade-in 

 value, low insurance cost. 

 It offers him power. N u m b e r of horses at his command; take-

 off at the lights: acceleration on hills and in traffic; top speed, 

 even if he never uses it. All adding up to a feeling of dominance 

 on the highway. 

 It offers him recognition. Admiration, status, subtle and ac-

 cepted bragging, envy, the feeling of having arrived. The ohs and 

 ahs of his neighbors, the first ride, the very smell of a new car. 

 It offers him value. The n u m b e r of feet of steel he can com-

 mand for the price. High trade-in value over the years. The fact 

 that the car can last for 100,000 miles, even if he can afford to 

 trade it in every year. 

 It offers him novelty: Power steering five vears ago—elec-

 tric door locks todav. Three-tone paint jobs vesterdav—iridescent 

 paints now. The thrill of being the leader, the pace-setter, the 

 proven pioneer. 

 And man\- more. Some of t h e m hidden, never admitted, 

 discovered only recently bv motivation research. Dozens of 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 V Z M A S S D E S I R E : T H E F O R C E T H A T MAKES ADVERTISIN G WOR K 

 different performances, built into the same product, each of 

 them reaching out and tapping a different desire—a distinct 

 public. 

 And yet your ad can feature onlv one of these performances; 

 can effectively tap only one mass desire at a time. 

 Your headline is limited by physical space. You have onlv 

 one glance of the reader's eye to stop him. He is preoccupied-

 he is not looking for your product or your message—the span of 

 his attention will admit only one thought to penetrate his indif-

 ference during that glance. 

 If your first thought holds him. he will read the second. If 

 the second holds him, he will read the third. And if the third 

 thought holds him, he will probably read through your ad. 

 Every product gives you dozens of keys. But onlv one will 

 fit the lock. Your job is to find that one dominant performance 

 squeeze every drop of power out of it in your presentation—and 

 then convince your reader that that performance and that satis-

 faction can come onlv from your product. 

 The next four chapters will show von how to locate that one 

 dominant performance, and how to fasliion it into vour headline. 

 Once you have written that headline, then even other perfor-

 mance contained in your product simply reinforces and docu-

 ments that main appeal, in exactly the same wav as the physical 

 product facts listed above. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 2 

 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE 

 OF AWARENESS—HOW TO 

 CAPITALIZE ON IT W H E N 

 YOU WRITE YOUR 

 HEADLINE 

 You have now completed the first 

 two stages in writing your ad. You have defined the mass desire 

 that makes up your market—for example, the desire to lose weight, 

 shared by millions of women all over America. And you have se-

 lected the one performance in vour product that satisfies that de-

 sire most deeply—for example, a liquid meal in a glass, delicious, 

 filling, already measured for you. as easy and pleasant to drink 

 as a chocolate malted. 

 This definition of vour market, and the selection of the prod-

 uct performance most likely to capture that market, forms the 

 core concept, or theme, of vour ad. You now know where you 

 are going to start—with your market; and where you are going 

 to end—with your product. The bridge between these two — their 

 meeting place — is your ad. 

 Your ad always begins with your market, and leads that 

 13 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 14 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 market inevitably into your product. The beginning of vour ad— 

 your headline—is the first step in this process. Therefore it con-

 cerns itself entirely with your market. It mav never even mention 

 your product or its performance. It is based entirely on the an-

 swer to these three questions: 

 1. What is the mass desire that creates this market? (Which 

 we have already discovered.) 

 2. How much do these people know today about the way 

 your product satisfies this desire? (Their State of Awareness.) 

 3. How many other products have been presented to them 

 before yours? (Their State of Sophistication. 

 The answer to question 1 gives von the nation-wide force 

 that creates your market. The answer to questions 2 and 3 gives 

 you the location of that market in relation to vour product. Your 

 strategy for exploiting or overcoming the answers to these last 

 two questions will give you the content of vour headline. Let's 

 first re-define the job we are going to ask our headline to do, 

 and then see how each of these last two questions tells us what 

 that headline should—and should not—saw 

 Your Headline's Real Job 

 There has been much confusion about how much of a sell-

 ing job your headline should be required to do. Actually, your 

 headline does not need to sell at all. It does not have to mention 

 your product. It does not even have to mention vour main ap-

 peal. To demand that a headline should do any of these is to 

 place the full selling burden on approximately 10% to 20% of 

 the total physical space of your ad . . . that physical space taken 

 up by the headline itself. 

 Your headline has only one job — to stop your prospect and 

 compel him to read the second sentence of your ad. In exactly 

 the same way, your second sentence has only one job—to force 

 him to read the third sentence of vour ad. And the third sentence 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 15 

 —and every additional sentence in your ad—has exactly the 

 same job. 

 It is simply common sense that the more of vour storv vou 

 can force your prospect to read, the more thoroughly you can sell 

 him. To attempt to do the same selling job in ten words, instead 

 of a hundred, or a thousand, is to shoot craps with vour clients 

 money. You might as well bnv only enough space to print vour 

 headline, and use the rest of the budget for repeat insertions. 

 It is the copy writer's job to force the prospect to read his 

 client's full story—not just a skimmed version of it. Only to 

 prospects actively seeking the client's specific brand-name prod-

 uct, and in a case where you can offer them a special price re-

 duction, can your headline do the full selling job. To attempt a 

 complete selling job with anv other kind of headline is simply to 

 admit defeat. 

 What Your Prospect's State of 

 Awareness Demands From Your Headline 

 We have already assumed that the only reader you are look-

 ing for is the prospect for vour product. That means that he 

 shares a defined desire with thousands, and perhaps even mil-

 lions, of other people all over America. But how much aware is 

 that prospect of that desire? How close is it to the surface of his 

 consciousness? Is he aware only that a problem or need exists, 

 or is he aware if they can be satisfied? And if he is aware that 

 a means of satisfaction exists, does he realize that it lies in your 

 iiroup of products, or specifically in your product by name, or 

 more specifically in your product at a given price? 

 The answer to these questions will help you determine the 

 State of Awareness of your market—their present state of knowl-

 edge about your product and the satisfaction that your product 

 performs. It is at this precise point of awareness that vour head-

 line begins. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 16 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 In its natural development, everv market's awareness passes 

 through several stages. The more aware your market, the easier 

 the selling job, the less vou need to sav. Let's go down the aware-

 ness scale step by step. We'll start at the Most Aware—the most 

 mechanical selling job—and proceed to more and more difficult 

 problems, requiring more and more creative solutions. 

 1. The Most Aware 

 The customer knows of your product — knows what it does — 

 knows he wants it. At this point, he just hasn't gotten around to 

 buying it yet. Your headline—in fact, vour entire ad—need state 

 little more except the name of your product and a bargain price. 

 For example: 

 "Revere Zomar Lens, Electric Eve Camera—Formerly 

 $149.50—Now Only $119.95." 

 The remainder of the advertisement can summarize quicklv 

 the most desirable selling points. Then add the name of a store, 

 or a coupon, and close. 

 This is the typical department store, discount store, mail-

 order-bargain-catalog type of advertising. It takes advantage of 

 the full weight of all the advertising that has been done on the 

 same product before it. Its addition—its news—is the price—or 

 a free gift—or instant delivery—or proximity in the neighbor-

 hood. Its prospect is fully aware —he has all the information he 

 needs. Here the copy writer is nothing more than the merchan-

 dise manager's phrase-maker. The price is the most important 

 part of his headline. There is nothing creative about his job, and 

 he should receive the lowest possible scale of pav. 

 2. The Customer Knows of the Product 

 But Doesn't Yet Want It 

 Here, your prospect isn't completely aware of all your prod- 

 uct does, or isn't convinced of how well it does it, or hasn't yet 

 been told how much better it does it now. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 17 

 Here—in the approach to this market—is the great bulk of 

 all advertising. Here you are dealing with a product which is 

 known—which has established a brand name—which has already-

 linked itself with an acknowledged public desire, and has proven 

 that it satisfied that desire. 

 Here vour headline is faced with one of seven tasks: 

 (a) To reinforce your prospects desire for your product: 

 (b) To sharpen his image of the way vour product satisfies 

 that desire; 

 (c) To extend his image of where and when vour product 

 satisfies that desire; 

 (d) To introduce new proof, details, documentation of how 

 well vour product satisfies that desire; 

 (e) To announce a new mechanism in that product to en-

 able it to satisfy that desire e\-en better; 

 (f) To announce a new mechanism in vour product that elim-

 inates former limitations; 

 (g) Or to completely change the image or the mechanism of 

 that product, in order to remove it from the competition of other 

 products claiming to satisfy the same desire. 

 In all seven cases, the approach is the same. You display the 

 name of the product—either in the headline or in an equally 

 large logo—and use the remainder of the headline to point out 

 its superioritv. The body of the ad is then an elaboration of that 

 superiority—including visualization, documentation, mechaniza-

 tion. When you have finished weaving in everv strand of vour 

 product's superiority7, your ad is done. 

 Here are sample headlines presenting solutions to all seven 

 of the problems of this state of awareness: 

 (a) To reinforce your prospect's desire for your product — 

 bv using: 

 ASSOCIATION: 

 "Steinway—The Instrument of the Immortals." 

 "Jov—The Costliest Perfume in the World." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 18 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 EXAMPLE: 

 "Which Twin Has the Toni?" 

 "Hair Coloring So Natural Only Her Hairdresser 

 Knows For Sure—Miss Clairol." 

 SENSORY SHARPEN I \ 0 : 

 "Tastes like you just picked it—Dole." 

 "The skin YOU love to touch—Woodbury" 

 ILLUSTRATION: 

 (Anyone of the thousands of superb pictorial ads in the food, 

 fashion, cosmetic, jewelry and similar industries. Perhaps best 

 summed up by Life Saver's classic headline. "Please don't lick 

 this page.") 

 (b) To sharpen your prospect's image of the way your product 

 satisfies that desire (Much like the sensory shaipening illustrated 

 above; but concentrating here on the physical product itself, or on 

 the mechanism bv which it works): 

 "At 60 miles an hour, the loudest noise in a Rolls 

 Royee is the electric clock." 

 "The amazing story of a Zippo that worked after 

 being taken from the bellv of a fish." 

 (c) To extend his image of where and when your product 

 satisfies that desire: 

 "Anywhere you go. Hertz is always nearby" 

 "Thirst knows no season"—in a winter ad, at a time 

 when cold drinks were only consumed during the sum-

 mer—"Coca Cola." 

 (d) To introduce new proof, details, documentation of how 

 11 your product satisfies that desire: 

 we, 

 "9 out of 10 screen stars use Lux Toilet Soap for 

 their priceless smooth skins." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 19 

 "Jake La Motta, 160-lb fighter, fails to flatten Mono 

 paper cup." 

 "In Boston, the #1 tea-drinking citv, the #1 tea is 

 Salada." 

 (e) To announce a new mechanism in that product to enable 

 it to satisfy that desire even better: 

 "Hoovers new invention washes floors and vacuums 

 up the scrub water." 

 "Worlds only dog food that makes its own gravy— 

 Gaines Graw Train." 

 (f) To announce a new mechanism in i/onr product that elim- 

 inates former limitations: 

 "You breathe no dustv odors when YOU do it with 

 Lewvt." 

 "A new Zenith hearing aid—inconspicuous beyond 

 belief." 

 (g) Or to completely change the image or the mechanism of 

 the product, in order to remove it from the competition of other 

 products claiming to satisfy the same desire. 

 H e r e we are dealing with the State of Sophistication of our 

 market—the amount of exposure they have already had to simi-

 lar products. Every product during its life history encounters this 

 problem. All of Chapter 3 will be devoted to some of the ap-

 proaches to its solution. 

 We now move on to the less aware markets—with their more 

 difficult copv challenges, and their greater d e m a n d for the unpre-

 cedented. 

 3. H o w to Introduce N e w Products 

 The prospect either knows, or recognizes immediately, that 

 he wants what the product does; but he doesn't yet know' that 

 there is a product — your product — that will do it for him. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 20 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 Here the problem is two-fold. First, to pinpoint the ill-

 defined, as-vet-uncrvstallized desire that is slowly spreading 

 through great masses of people all over America. And second, 

 to crystallize that desire, and its solution, so sharplv and so dra-

 matically that each and every prospect will recognize it at a 

 glance. 

 The three steps in the process are simple. Name the desire 

 and/or its solution in vour headline. Prove that that solution can 

 be accomplished. And show that the mechanism of that accom-

 plishment is contained in vour product. 

 However, starting with a market in this still-amorphous state 

 of awareness, and continuing with each of the more difficult chal-

 lenges to come, the execution becomes more and more important 

 than the mechanics. Here the eopv writer contributes more and 

 more to the value of the product in the public eve, and to its 

 total volume of sales. Here the innovator comes into play. Here 

 the ratio of salary of copy writer to production supervisor shoots 

 up abruptly. For this is the domain of the idea man. 

 What are the attributes he needs0 

 First, analysis. As a copy writer vou will find it necessary to 

 define the particular market most receptive to vour product, its 

 location in relation to your product in terms of awareness and 

 sophistication, and the driving emotional forces that have created 

 both that market and the potential for the sales of vour product 

 within it. 

 Second, intuition, which may be described as the ability to 

 sense a trend at its start, gauge its force and direction, deter-

 mine the precise moment when it burgeons into a profitable 

 market. 

 And third, verbal creativity, as discussed in the next three 

 chapters, and throughout the rest of the book. The ability to give 

 a name to the still-undefined. To capture a feeling, a hope, a de-

 sire, a fear in words. To create a catchword or a slogan. To focus 

 emotion, and give it a goal. 

 Let us see how great writers in the past have taken these 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE O F AWARENESS 2 1 

 amorphous desires, and brought them into razor-sharp focus in 

 a single statement in their headline: 

 "Light a Lucky, and vou'll never miss sweets that make 

 you fat." 

 "Who else wants a whiter wash—with no hard work':"" 

 "How to win friends and influence people. 

 "To men who want to cjuit work some day. 

 "When doctors feel rotten—this is what they do.' 

 "Now! Run your car without spark plugs'' 

 "Who ever heard of 17,000 />/< >om* ironi a single plant0" 

 And dozens more. Here, amorphous desire has been crys-

 tallized in the headline. Then sharpened and expanded in the 

 first few paragraphs; satisfied and documented in the body of the 

 ad: and focussed inevitably on the product throughout. 

 Sometimes the simplest statement of the desire is the best. 

 "How to win friends and influence people" needs no verbal twist 

 to increase its impact. At other times, the desire itself must be 

 reinforced by fresh proof that it can be achieved, "When doctors 

 feel rotten—this is what they do". Or by mystery, "Now! Run 

 your car without spark plugs!" Or by wonderment, "Who ever 

 heard of 17,000 blooms from a single plant?". The next two chap-

 ters will discuss, first, the strategy of determining when to use a 

 fresh approach; and second, how- to sharpen that first statement 

 of desire with verbalization. 

 4. H o w to Introduce Products That Solve N e e d s 

 The prospect has — not a desire — but a need. He recognizes 

 the need immediately. But he doesn't yet realize the connection 

 between the fulfillment of that need and your product. 

 This is the problem-solving ad. It might be thought of as a 

 special case of the desire ad mentioned above, since the tech-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 'Z'Z YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 nique of writing it is so similar. H e r e you start bv naming the 

 n e e d and/or its solution in your headline. Then dramatize the 

 n e e d so vividly that the prospect realizes just how badlv he needs 

 the solution. And then present your product as the inevitable 

 solution. 

 Again, this type of ad runs from the most naked statement 

 of the n e e d alone, to the most complicated verbal twists to bring 

 it to the peak of impact. To start at the beginning, the most ef-

 fective possible headline for your particular problem mav be as 

 simple as this: 

 "Corns?" 

 Here, only the problem itself is mentioned—nothing more. 

 Or it may be necessary to state both problem and solution im-

 mediately: 

 "Stops maddening itch." 

 Many headlines in this category promise the removal of pre-

 viously unconquerable limitations. They are especially popular in 

 catalog selling: 

 "Lets portable transistor radios play on ordinary house-

 hold current." 

 And many combine all three elements—the problem, its so-

 lution, and the removal of the usually expected limitations: 

 "Shrinks hemorrhoids without surgerv." 

 There are headlines which promise substitutes for unpleas-

 ant or expensive tasks: 

 "Now! A ring and piston job in a tube!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE O F AWARENESS ^ o 

 And there are headlines which promise to prevent a future 

 problem, before it can occur: 

 "Look, Mom! No cavities!" 

 But many times the problem is not so clearly defined, not 

 so obviously on the surface. You may know the general area of 

 the problem—for example, people's embarrassment at speaking 

 poor English. But you may not be sure of which avenue is the 

 most effective in reaching them. Here the emphasis of a single 

 w o r d — t h e emotional sharpening of an already easily-identified 

 image—provides the answer: 

 "Do YOU make these mistakes in English0" 

 And, where the solution to the need has been promised 

 before—where the direct statement of the solution has lost its 

 force and freshness—then verbal twists are needed to restore that 

 novelty: 

 "How a bald-headed barber helped save my hair." 

 5. How to Open Up a Completely Unaware Market 

 And finally—the most difficult. The prospect is either not 

 aware of his desire or his need — or he won't honestly admit it to 

 himself without being lead into it by your ad — or the need is so 

 general and amorphous that it resists being summed up in a single 

 headline — or it's a secret that just can't be verbalized. 

 This is the outer reach of the awareness scale. These are the 

 people who are still the logical prospects for your product; and 

 vet, in their own minds, they are hundreds of miles away from 

 accepting that product. It is your job to bridge that gap. 

 Let me repeat what I said when we first began to explore 

 these five stages of awareness. Each of these stages is separated 

 from the others by a psychological wall. On one side of that wall 

 is indifference; on the other, intense interest. A headline that 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 24 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 will work wonders in the first stage-for example, "Dial Soap-90 

 a cake - w i l l fail completely when addressed to a third-stage 

 market where your prospect doesn't even realize that soaps can 

 be made with built-in deodorants. And a third-stage h e a d l i n e -

 for example "Who else wants a whiter wash with no hard work?" 

 - w i l l be old-hat, no-news to todays housewife, who has been 

 barraged by whiter-than-white advertising for twenty years 

 To sum up, then.- a headline which will work to'a market in 

 one stage of awareness will not work to a market in another 

 stage of awareness. Nor will it work, even to a market in which 

 it has been successful, once that market passes on to a new stage 

 ot awareness. b 

 Most products are designed to satisfy a specific need or 

 desire. They are born into markets that are m at least the third 

 or fourth stages of awareness. They may therefore never be faced 

 with the problem of an unaware market. 

 However, many products actually pass out of public aware-

 ness or out of public acceptance-at some time or other dur-

 ing their hfe histories. The desire they satisfy dries up, or other 

 products serve it better, or they are branded "old-fashioned " 

 Again, we are dealing with a matter of statistics. When a 

 product begins to slip . . . when volume falls off, even though ad-

 vertising budgets are increased . . . when the name of the prod-

 uct no longer sells as much . . . when a direct statement of the 

 product s function no longer sells as much . . . when a direct state-

 ment of the desire or the need that the product fulfills no longer 

 sells as much-then that product needs to be reborn, and its prob- 

 lem is the problem of opening up an unatvare market 

 Again, this is the most difficult, the most challenging prob-

 em of a 1. There are few positive milestones to guide vou But 

 fortunately there are some completely self-evident negative rules 

 that can eliminate many blind alleys, and set you face to face 

 against your task. Planning a headline for a completely unaware 

 or resistant market, then, is first of all a process of elimination' 

 Here are the first paths: 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 25 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 1. Price means nothing to a person who does not know your 

 product, or want your product. Therefore, eliminate all mention 

 of price, or price reduction, in your headline or prime display 

 type. 

 2. The name of vour product means nothing to a person 

 who has never seen it'before, and may actually damage your ad 

 if you have had a bad model the year before, or if it is now as-

 sociated with the antiquated, the unfashionable, or the unpleas-

 ant. Therefore, keep vour product out of the headline, and be 

 extremely wary about'breaking the mood or disguise of your ad 

 with a prominent logo. 

 3. And this is the hardest fact of all to accept. At this stage 

 of your market, a direct statement of what your product does, 

 what desire it satisfies, or what problem it sokes, simply will not 

 work. Your product either has not reached that direct stage, or 

 has passed beyond it. And vou cannot simply shift from one de-

 sire to another. You are not faced here with a problem of so-

 phistication, but one of complete indifference, or unacceptabil-

 ity. Therefore, the performance of vour product, and the desire 

 it'satisfies, can only be brought in later. You cannot mention them 

 in vour headline. 

 ' So vou cannot mention price, product, function or desire. 

 What do vou have left? Your market, of course! And the distinct 

 possibility that by broadening vour appeal beyond price, product 

 function or specific desire, vou can reach the maximum limits of 

 your full potential market; consolidate splinter appeals; and in-

 crease the sales of vour product at a fantastic rate. 

 Once you have accepted the challenge of writing this kind 

 of ad, then vour product and its attributes fade into the back-

 ground, and'you concentrate exclusively on the state of mind of 

 vour market at this particular moment. 

 ' What vou are doing essentially in this fifth stage is calling 

 uour market together in the headline of your ad. You are writ-

 ing an identification headline. You are selling nothing, promising 

 nothing, satisfying nothing. Instead, you are echoing an emotion, 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 an attitude, a ^satisfaction that picks people out from the crowd 

 and binds them together in a single statement. 

 In this type of headline, you are telling them what thev are 

 You are defining them for themselves. You are giving them the 

 information they need and want, about a problem still so vague 

 that you are the first to put it into words. 

 Here, above all, is the type of headline that never attempts 

 to sell a product or a performance, but simplv tries to sell the 

 remainder of the ad itself—the information that follows on the 

 page. The only function of this headline is to get the prospect to 

 read the next paragraph. And this second paragraph pulls him 

 into the third; and the third into the fourth: and right on down 

 the page, paragraph after paragraph. 

 Meanwhile these paragraphs are building a steady progres-

 sion of logical images, from the first identification with'the head-

 line, to a growing awareness of the problem or the desire to 

 the realization that a solution is at hand, and to the inevitable 

 focussing of that desire and that solution onto your particular 

 product. 

 This, then, is the general strategy of dealing with an unaware 

 market. The application of this strategy, when all direct methods 

 have failed, has produced hundreds of great headlines. It would 

 be impossible to classify all of them, since each solution estab-

 lishes its own new pattern. However, there are definite landmarks 

 and directions we can distinguish. Here are some of them—start-

 ing with the general principle they used, then the problem thev 

 solved, then the headline itself, and then the most important 

 structural paragraph of body copy: 

 Giving Words to a Hidden Dream 

 Problem: to expand the market for home correspondence 

 courses beyond that obtained by "Earn more money" and "Gain 

 more skill" headlines. The solution: 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 27 

 THE UNIVERSITY OF THE NIGHT 

 The voung Lincoln, poring over borrowed school-books 

 far into the night—seeking in the dim light of bis log fire 

 the transforming light of knowledge—eager to grow—eager 

 to do . . . here is an example which has inspired the man 

 who strives against the odds of circumstances to make his 

 place in the world. 

 To-night, in cities and towns and villages . . . thousands 

 of men will drop their daily labors to fight, beneath the 

 lamp, the battle that Lincoln fought. . . 

 Up from the mines, down from the masts of ships . . . 

 from all the places where men work, they will go home 

 and take up their books because they yearn to grow, be-

 cause thev seek higher training, greater skill, more re-

 sponsibility . . . 

 Some of them are men who work in one field whereas 

 their talents and desires are in another. Some . . . are halted 

 in their progress because they do not understand the higher 

 principles of their business or profession. Some left school 

 in bovhood because poverty made it necessary . . . 

 Fifty years ago these men . . . would have had no place 

 to turn for the courses of study and for the personal guid-

 ance that they need. 

 Thirty vears ago there was founded a school to help 

 them—a school created for their needs and circumstances— 

 a school that goes to them no matter where they are—a 

 school. . . 

 Created in response to a need, the International Cor-

 respondence Schools have developed their scope and use-

 fulness to the growth of that need . . . 

 Exploiting a H i d d e n Fear 

 Problem: To re-vitalize the sales of a coffee substitute, long 

 after health headlines and p e p headlines and taste headlines had 

 failed. Secondary problem: To overcome a slipping brand name, 

 that was no longer an asset in either the headline or the logo. 

 The solution: 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 28 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 WHY MEN CRACK.. . 

 An authority of international standing recently wrote; 

 "You have overeaten and plugged vour organs with mod-

 erate stimulants, the worst of which are not onlv alcohol 

 and tobacco, but caffeine and sugar . . . " 

 You know them. Strong men. vigorous men, robust 

 men—men who have never had a sick dav in their lives. 

 They drive. They drive themselves to the limit. They lash 

 themselves over the limit with stimulants. Thev crack. Often, 

 the\- crash. 

 You have seen them afterwards. Pitiful shells. The zest 

 gone, the fire gone. Burnt-out furnaces of energy. 

 "He was such a healthy-looking man " 

 He was. His health was his undoing. His constitution 

 absorbed punishment. Otherwise he might have been 

 warned in time. 

 "For every action there is an equal and contrary reac- 

 tion." You learned the law in physics. It applies to bodies. 

 For every ounce of energy gained bv stimulation, bv 

 whipping the nerves to action, an ounce of reserve strength 

 is drained . . . But repeated withdrawals exhaust anv reserve. 

 Physical bankruptcy. Then the crash . . . 

 It's time to get back to normal, to close the drafts, to 

 bank some of the fires... 

 Avoid stimulants. What is good for the bov is good for 

 the man . . . 

 Borrowed Energy Must Be Repaid! 

 Two million American families avoid caffeine bv drink-

 ing Postum. And two million American families are better 

 off for it. . . 

 Leading Into an Unacceptable Problem by Starting 

 With a Universally Accepted I m a g e 

 Problem: To gain both publisher and prospect acceptance 

 for a woman's deodorant. A direct statement of the performance 

 or product would not only offend, but would never be published. 

 The solution: 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 29 

 WITHIN THE CURVE OF A WOMAN'S ARM 

 A frank discussion of a subject too often avoided. 

 A woman's arm! Poets have sung of its grace: artists 

 have painted its beautv. 

 It should be the daintiest, sweetest thing in the world. 

 And vet, unfortunatelv. it isn't, alwavs. 

 There's an old offender in this quest for perfect dain-

 tiness—an offender of which we ourselves niav be ever so 

 unconscious, but which is just as truly present. 

 Shall we discuss it frankly? 

 Many a woman who savs, "No, I am never annoved 

 by perspiration," does not know the facts . . . 

 Of course, we aren't to blame because nature has made 

 us so that the perspiration glands under the arms are more 

 active than anywhere else. Nor are we to blame because . . . 

 have made normal evaporation there impossible. 

 Would you be absolutely sure of your daintiness? 

 It is the chemicals of the body, not uncleanliness, that 

 cause odor. And even though there is no active perspira-

 tion—no apparent moisture—there may be under the arms 

 an o d o r . . . 

 Fastidious women who want to be absolutely sure of 

 their daintiness have found that thev could not trust to 

 their own consciousness; they have felt the need of a toi-

 let water which would insure them against any of this kind 

 of underarm unpleasantness, either moisture or odor. 

 To meet this need, a physician formulated Odorono— 

 a perfectly harmless and delightful toilet water . . . 

 To Project a H i d d e n D e s i r e Which 

 Cannot Be Put Bluntly Into Words 

 Problem: To capitalize on research findings that smoking cig-

 arettes gives men a feeling of virilitv, importance, sexual strength. 

 Any verbal expression of these themes, however, would be in-

 stantly rejected as absurd and offensive. The solution: 

 The MARLBORO TATTOO AD: With its virile men (cow-

 boys, racing car drivers, sky divers, etc.) whose appearance alone 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 3 0 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE O F AWARENESS 

 projected more of an image of raw virility than any n u m b e r of 

 words could ever convev. 

 Using a C o m m o n R e s e n t m e n t or Unvoiced Protest 

 to Capture a Far Greater Market Than t h e D i r e c t 

 Statement of the Solution of That R e s e n t m e n t 

 Would Produce 

 Problem: To sell a do-it-yourself book on television repairs. 

 Although all owners of TV sets were the potential market, only 

 a small fraction considered themselves interested enough or ca-

 pable enough to respond to a direct promise headline: "Save up 

 to $100 a year on your TV repairs!" Most were afraid thev could 

 not make the repairs themselves. Therefore, the market must 

 be b r o a d e n e d to include the nonhandvmen owners, bv exploit-

 ing the existing r e s e n t m e n t against TV s e n i c e contracts. T h e 

 solution: 

 WHY HAVEN'T TV OWNERS BEEN TOLD 

 THESE FACTS 

 Was your set purchased after the spring of 1947? Then 

 here is the full, uncensored storv of how- von can avoid 

 those $15-$20 repair bills—avoid those $30-860 a vear ser-

 vice fees—and still get the perfect, movie-clear pictures 

 you've dreamed about! 

 How many times this week have you had to get up to 

 fix a jumpy TV picture? . . . How many times have you had 

 to put up with ghosts? . . . 

 90% of These Breakdowns Are Unnecessary! 

 All these breakdowns mav have seemed tragic to vou 

 at the moment they happened—but here is the real trag-

 edy! Do you know that the same exact set that vou now 

 have in your front room . . . has been playing in manu-

 facturer's test rooms for months—and playing perfectly! 

 These sets have been subjected to "Breakdown 

 Tests" . . . These sets have been tested against every con-

 ceivable type of viewing hazard . . . And, in almost every-

 one of these cases, these sets have produced perfect, movie-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 clear pictures, without major breakdowns, for as much as 

 one full vear! Here are some of the reasons why: 

 What TV Experts Have Learned About Your Set. 

 If your set were properly cared for, as these sets 

 were . . . it need break down only once during the entire 

 year . . . 

 If your set were properly cared for, it can actually give 

 you perfect, movie-clear reception the other 364 days of 

 the year . . . 

 And most important, these experts have discovered 

 that you do not have to be a handyman or a mechanic in 

 order to coax this performance . . . Here's why: 

 5 Minutes a Week for Perfect Reception. 

 These TV experts have discovered that your TV set is 

 a great deal like your bod}' in this respect—that it gives 

 warning signals before it has a major breakdown . . . 

 Now, if you had the knowledge to make a few minor 

 adjustments, on the outside controls of that set, then you 

 could correct those symptoms . . . 

 If you do not have this knowledge . . . then your set 

 will weaken, you will have a constantly bad picture . . . 

 It's as simple as that. You pay a repairman—not for 

 his work—but for his knowledge. If you had that knowl-

 edge yourself—then you would not have to pav him at 

 all . . .' 

 Now suppose that you had a TV expert at your elbow 

 24 hours a day. Suppose that every time your set began to 

 flicker, or jump . . . this expert would show you exactly what 

 knob on the outside of vour set vou could turn . . . 

 Suppose that every time you were annoyed bv 

 ghosts . . . this expert would show you a simple non-

 mechanical trick . . . 

 Yes, and suppose that even when your set went black, 

 this expert could show you . . . 

 All the Information You Need About Your TV Set! 

 This is exactly what a new book, the TELEVISION 

 OWNER'S GUIDE does for you . . . 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 32 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 Projecting an Ultimate Triumph That 

 the Prospect Will Identify With 

 Problem: To sell music lessons by correspondence to a greater 

 audience than would respond to a direct "Plav Real Tunes on the 

 Piano in Five Davs" approach. T h e solution: 

 THEY LAUGHED WHEN I 

 SAT DOWN AT THE PIANO. 

 BUT WHEN I STARTED TO PLAY!— 

 Arthur had just played "The Rosarv." The room rang 

 with applause. I decided that this would he a dramatic mo-

 ment for me to make my debut. To the amazement of all 

 my friends, I strode confidently over to the piano and sat 

 down. 

 "Jack is up to his old tricks," somebody chuckled. The 

 crowd laughed . . . 

 "Can he really play?" I heard a girl whisper to Arthur. 

 "Heavens, no!" Arthur exclaimed. "He never plaved a 

 note in his life. But you just watch him. This is going to 

 be good." . . . 

 Then I Started to Play. 

 Instantly a tense silence fell on the guests. The laugh-

 ter died on their lips as if by magic . . . I heard gasps of 

 amazement. My friends sat breathless—spellbound. 

 I played on and on and as I plaved I forgot the people 

 around me. I forgot the hour, the place, the breathless lis-

 teners. The little world I lived in seemed to fade—seemed 

 to grow dim—unreal. Only the music was real . . . It seemed 

 as if the master musician himself were speaking to me . . . 

 not in words but in chords. Not in sentences but in ex-

 quisite melodies! 

 A Complete Triumph! 

 As the last notes of the Moonlight Sonata died awav, 

 the room resounded with a sudden roar of applause. I found 

 myself surrounded by excited faces. How mv friends 

 carried on! Men shook me by the hand—wildly congratu-

 lated me—pounded me on the back with their enthusiasm! 

 Everybody was exclaiming with delight—plving me with 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 33 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 rapid questions . . . "Jack! Why didn't you tell us you could 

 play like that?" . . . "Where did you learn?" . . . "How long 

 have you studied?" . . . "Who was your teacher?" 

 "I have never even seen my teacher," I replied. "And 

 just a short while ago I couldn't even play a note." 

 "Quit vour kidding," laughed Arthur, himself an accom-

 plished pianist. "You've been studying for years. I can tell." 

 "I have been studying only a short while," I insisted. 

 "I decided to keep it a secret 'so I could surprise all you 

 folks." 

 Then I told them the whole story 

 "Have vou ever heard of the U.S. School of Music?" 

 T ' I S K P Q 

 A few of my friends nodded. "That's a correspondence 

 school, isn't it'3" thev exclaimed. 

 "Exactly," I replied. "They have a new simplified 

 method that can teach you to play any instrument by mail 

 in just a few short months." . . . 

 Projecting the Result of a Problem in Such a Way That It 

 Will Be Identified With by P e o p l e W h o Would Reject a 

 Direct Statement of the Problem Itself 

 Problem: To increase the sales of a mouthwash, not only on 

 a germ t h e m e (which could be immediately accepted), but on 

 the more universal social-offense theme, which would be rejected 

 in its direct form. T h e idea of bad breath was too insulting to be 

 taken by the public "straight." T h e solution: 

 OFTEN A BRIDESMAID BUT NEVER A BRIDE 

 Edna's case was really a pathetic one. Like every 

 woman, her primary ambition was to marry. Most of the 

 girls in her set were married—or about to be. Yet no one 

 possessed more charm or grace or loveliness than she. 

 And as her birthdays crept gradually toward that tragic 

 thirtv-mark, marriage seemed farther from her life than 

 ever. 

 She was often a bridesmaid but never a bride. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 3 4 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE O F AWARENESS 

 YOUR PROS 

 That's the insidious thing about halitosis (unpleasant 

 breath). You, yourself rarely know when vou have it. And 

 even your closest friends won't tell vou. 

 Sometimes, of course, halitosis comes from some deep-

 seated organic disorder that requires professional advice. 

 But usually—and fortunately—halitosis is onlv a local con-

 dition that yields to the regular use of Listerine as a mouth 

 wash and gargle. It is an interesting thing that this well-

 known antiseptic that has been in use for \ ears for surgi-

 cal dressings, possesses these unusual properties as a breath 

 d e o d o r a n t . . . 

 Projecting the Result of an Accomplishment to Attract 

 P e o p l e Who Would Be Frightened Away by the Work 

 Implied to Achieve It 

 Problem: To broaden the market for home correspondence 

 courses, beyond that possible with a direct statement of the im-

 mediate result—learning or skill. An attempt must be made to 

 direct the prospect's mind away from effort, to reward. The so-

 lution: 

 "HERE'S AN EXTRA $50, GRACE—" 

 '7'm making real money now!" 

 "Yes, I've been keeping it a secret until pav day came. 

 I've been promoted with an increase of $50 a month. And 

 the first extra money is yours. Just a little reward for urg-

 ing me to study at home. The boss saws mv spare time 

 training has made me a valuable man to the firm and there's 

 more money coming soon. We're starting up easv street, 

 Grace, thanks to vou and the I.C.S. . . ." 

 T h e List N e v e r Ends 

 Every day new solutions, new patterns are being created. 

 Wherever the direct appeal fails, or loses its power, you should 

 begin to explore a fifth stage headline. 

 However, there are two vital points to r e m e m b e r in con-

 nection with this problem. First of all, this type of headline is in-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 35 

 finitely more difficult to bring home to the target than any of the 

 other four types. You are far more likely to miss the mark on this 

 headline, because you have far fewer guideposts to direct you. 

 Your headline no longer refers to i/our product, but it must there- 

 fore refer even more strongly to your market. It cannot simply 

 be a startler, or an attention-getter, or humorous, or cute. Nor 

 can it mask the fact that it has no headline behind a prettv pic-

 ture. Most copy writers use a fifth stage problem to write an 

 empty headline, and are therefore simply wasting their client's 

 money. 

 Because it is so easy to wander off into an irrelevant head-

 line, keep this one cardinal rule in mind. Your prospect must 

 identify with your headline before lie can buy from it. It must 

 be his headline, his problem, his state of mind at that particular moment. It must pick out the product's logical prospects—and 

 reject as many people as it attracts. 

 And, if it is an effective headline, and it works, then it too 

 will become outdated as your market moves on to a new stage 

 of awareness. And you will be presented with another problem, 

 just as challenging, and just as rewarding, as the one you have 

 solved before. You never step in the same river twice. No mar-

 ket ever stands still. 

 A Final Word on Style in Advertising Copy 

 Markets change; desires change; fashions change. And so do 

 the acceptable styles of advertisements change. Certain advertis-

 ing styles—the form your advertising message takes—grow tired 

 with time—then stale—then actually laughable. At the turn of 

 the century, effective ads were written in verse; twenty years later, 

 no one would believe them. In the 1920s most of the great ads 

 were narrative stories—either first-person confessions, or third 

 person revelations, or comic strips dramatizations. Today every-

 thing but the comic strip is gone—and we see less and less of it 

 every year. When a new style is born, people believe it, and it 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 36 

 YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S STATE OF AWARENESS 

 reinforces the message it is carrying. When that same style grows 

 trite, people cannot see the message for the advertisement. 

 We'll explore this subject further, in the chapters discussing 

 Mood and Disguise in writing advertisements. Meanwhile, one 

 more note here. 

 In effective advertising, though stvles may change, strategy-

 does not. If you will study the piano and bridesmaid ads in this 

 chapter, you will notice this: That while the narrative style of 

 both is now old-hat, you can still respond to their power. Both 

 tap desires that still exist—though now perhaps directed toward 

 different products and different problems. And both evoke those 

 desires, and channel those desires, so effectively, that if they 

 were rewritten in today's idiom, and applied to different prod-

 ucts, they still might sell millions of dollars worth of goods today. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 THE SOPHISTICATION OF 

 YOUR MARKET: 

 H O W MANY PRODUCTS 

 HAVE B E E N THERE 

 BEFORE YOU? 

 As we mentioned before, in Chap-

 ter 2, there are three questions vou must answer before vou can 

 determine what goes into vour headline. These are: 

 1. What is the mass desire that motivates your market? 

 2. How much does your market know about your product? 

 (Their State of Awareness.) 

 3. How many similar products have they been told about be- 

 fore? (Their State of Sophistication.) 

 This third question is the most easilv answered. A few hours 

 research should give you samples of everv competing ad in the 

 field—if there are any. 

 If You Are First in Your Market 

 If there are not—if vou are the first in your particular market, 

 with your particular product—then you are dealing with prospects 

 37 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 •JO T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N OF YOUR MARKET 

 that have no sophistication about your product at all. In other 

 words, thev have never received any information about such a 

 product before. Once you get them interested, they are likelv to 

 become much more enthusiastic, believe much more of what you 

 have to say, and buy that much more readily. Remember, vour 

 story is brand-new to them. 

 This, of course, is the dream of every manufacturer and every 

 copy writer. To be first. And it happens quite often today. Some-

 times because of a technological breakthrough—creating a new 

 product (women's hair sprays), or a radically better product (long-

 playing records), or a familiar product at an explosively low price 

 (the Model T Ford). 

 And sometimes, such a brand-new market is created by the 

 insight of an advertising man, dealing with an already-established 

 product. In this case, the ad man visualizes the application of the 

 product to an entirely different market (the switch, in the Twen-

 ties, of Ovaltine from an aid for insomnia to a body builder for 

 skinnv children). 

 Or he reaches that market through a hitherto untapped 

 medium (Revlons fabulous results from sponsorship of "The 

 $64,000 Question" in the early days of TV). 

 Or he discovers a previously unnoticed performance of his 

 product that carries it completely beyond the limits of its old 

 market (Lifebuoy's discovery that people would accept its strong 

 medicinal odor as a cure for perspiration odor, and their subse-

 quent christening of that odor with the catch-word "B.O."). 

 When such a golden opportunity—to be first—presents it-

 self, you are probably dealing with a market in its third or fourth 

 stage of awareness. Your prospects know that they would like 

 what your product does, or they would like to get rid of the prob-

 lem your product solves—if it were only possible. 

 Here, the answer to your third question is quite simple. You 

 are dealing with a market where you are first. Therefore thev 

 have no previous information about similar products. Therefore 

 they are completely unsophisticated. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N OF YOUR MARKET 

 39 

 And vour exploitation of this answer—your strategy in ap-

 proaching this market—is equally simple: 

 1. Be simple. Be direct. Above all, don't be fancy. 'Same ei- 

 ther the need or the claim in your headline — nothing more. Dra- 

 matize that claim in your copy — make it as powerful as possible. 

 And. then bring in your product; and prove that it works. 

 Nothing more—because nothing more is needed. To illus-

 trate, let's look at one of the most profitable, insatiable, constantly-

 renewing, and therefore overworked fields in marketing history: 

 the reducing field. No one knows who was the first man to stum-

 ble on the reducing field (though it's fairly certain that he must 

 have become a millionaire). But all he had to say in his headline 

 as a simple statement of the direct desire of millions of women: 

 w: 

 "NOW! LOSE UGLY FAT!" 

 As he started to clean up, others inevitably followed. But, by 

 this time, the reducing field had already been tapped. Advertise-

 ments had been run. The direct claim had been made. Mere rep-

 etition would no longer be enough. In other words, the reducing 

 market was now in its Second Stage of Sophistication. A new ap-

 proach was necessary. The strategy had to be changed—to this: 

 If You're Second, Do This 

 If you're second, and the direct claim is still working— then 

 copy that successful claim — but enlarge on it. Drive it to the ab- 

 solute limit. Outbid your competition. 

 For example, here are two successful headlines in the now 

 fiercelv-competitive reducing field that did just that. They have 

 both been pushed to the outer limits of both legality and be-

 lievabilitv. But thev both worked. 

 'LOSE UP TO 47 POUNDS IN 4 WEEKS-

 OR RECEIVE $40 BACK!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 40 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N O F YOUR MARKET 

 "I AM 61 POUNDS LIGHTER 

 . . . NEVER A HUNGRY MINUTE." 

 In most fields, this enlarged-claim technique reaches the 

 outer limits in successive stages. Sometimes the completion of 

 this process takes years. In the home garden field, as another ex-

 ample, an advertiser brought out a Floribunda Rose—using this 

 headline with startling success: 

 "PICK 25—50—100 ROSES 

 FROM THIS ONE MAGNIFICENT PLANT!" 

 It worked. And so, some years later, a special variety of cush-

 ion mum swept the country with this headline: 

 "SIX HUNDRED MUMS 

 FROM A SINGLE BUSH!" 

 And, one year later, this headline carried the process to what 

 are probably the absolute limits of Mother Nature: 

 "WHO EVER HEARD OF 

 17,000 BLOOMS 

 FROM A SINGLE PLANT?" 

 As simple as this evolution looks, it produces results. It pro-

 vided a tremendous lift to car sales in the 1950s, when 50 more 

 horsepower was added to the advertisements everv vear. It was 

 climaxed in the Chrysler 300—a car named after its horsepower 

 rating—and pegged just at the limit of believability, practicality, 

 and the inevitable public reaction. 

 For the reaction will come. Toward the end, the process 

 disintegrates. The successful claim is overworked; enlargement 

 piles on enlargement. New competitors enter the field—each try-

 ing to promise more. Headlines double and triple in size. Words 

 begin to lose their meaning—"whiter-than-whites" appear. The 

 prospect becomes confused—then skeptical. Believability is shat-

 tered; claims are automatically discounted 50% by their 

 readers. More promise is poured in to compensate. The govern-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N O F YOUR MARKET 

 41 

 merit begins to investigate. And the sales curve begins to turn 

 down-down-down. 

 The Third Stage of Sophistication 

 At this point, your market has entered into its Third Stage 

 of Sophistication. Your prospects have now heard all the claims— 

 all the extremes. Perhaps they have even bought one or two com-

 petitive products. Every time they open a newspaper, another 

 similar headline screams out at them. How are they to distin- 

 guish one product from the mass? How do you break through to 

 reach them? 

 One factor is vital here. That is the restorative power of the 

 market you are dealing with. It may be a market based on a con-

 stantly recurring mass instinct, such as reducing. It may be a mar-

 ket based on an unsolved technological problem, such as spark 

 plug replacement. It may be a market that periodically wishes to 

 renew or improve its purchases, such as cars, homes, appliances. 

 In all these cases, the desire never fades; the market con-

 tinuallv renews itself. New prospects come into the market. Old 

 customers become dissatisfied with their old purchases, their old 

 solutions, and begin to look again. The mass desire—the tremen-

 dous profit potential—still exists. But it cannot be tapped by the 

 old, simple methods any longer. 

 Women still want to lose weight. But by now they've read 

 dozens of ads for reducing aids—all promising them to take off 

 20, 30, 40 pounds in a matter of weeks. They no longer fully be-

 lieve them. Perhaps the}' believe these ads so little that they won't 

 even try a new product at all. For months, even years, they may 

 simplv accept their overweight condition as "something that just 

 can't be helped." 

 But the desire never fades. The dissatisfaction builds up, 

 month after month. Secretly, perhaps even unconsciously, these 

 women are hoping to find a new product—a new headline—that 

 promises them a new way to satisfy that age-old desire. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 42 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N O F YOUR MARKET 

 And on this fundamental fact, we build our strategy for sell-

 ing a market in its Third Stage of Sophistication. 

 If your market is at the stage where they've heard all the 

 claims, in all their extremes, then mere repetition or exaggeration 

 wont work any longer. What this market needs now is a new de- 

 vice to make all these old claims become fresh and believable to 

 them again. In other words, A NEW MECHANISM — a new way 

 to making the old promise work. A different process — a fresh 

 chance — a brand-new possibility of success where only disap- 

 pointment has resulted before. 

 Here the emphasis shifts from what the product does to 

 HOW it works. Not accomplishment, but performance becomes 

 dominant. The headline expands. The claim remains—but now 

 it is reinforced by the mechanism that accomplishes it. In the re-

 ducing field, for example, the limits of its basic promise had been 

 reached bv headlines like this: 

 "I AM 61 POUNDS LIGHTER 

 . . . NEVER A HUNGRY MINUTE." 

 Now new leaders emerge—avoiding the competition of 

 claims—stressing mechanism instead, like this: 

 "FLOATS FAT RIGHT OUT 

 OF YOUR BODY!" 

 ft ft ft 

 "FIRST WONDER DRUG 

 FOR REDUCING!" 

 A vital change has taken place in both these ads—and in 

 every ad that deals successfully with this Third Stage of Sophis-

 tication. In the previous, Second-Stage ads, the entire headline 

 was taken up by a complete statement of the main claim. Below 

 it, in smaller type, in either a subhead or the bodv copy, came 

 the mechanism that accomplished the claim. Often, this mecha-

 nism was abbreviated—simply mentioned instead of being ex-

 plained—indicated bv a sort of shorthand, like this: 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N O F YOUR MARKET 

 43 

 "I AM 61 POUNDS LIGHTER 

 . . . NEVER A HUNGRY MINUTE.' 

 Read the Astonishing Experience of New York Food 

 Expert with the Famous Eat-and-Redtice Plan. 

 In Third-Stage ads, however, this arrangement is completely 

 reversed. By this time, the basic claim has become well-known 

 to almost all its prospects—perhaps even too well-known. There-

 fore, this shorthand can be applied to the claim itself. What was 

 before a five to ten word headline describing nothing but the 

 basic claim—"I AM 61 P O U N D S LIGHTER"—Hint- can he com- 

 municated in a single word in a headline devoted to explaining 

 how this claim is accomplished. For instance: 

 "FLOATS FAT RIGHT 

 OUT OF YOUR BODY!" 

 Or: 

 "FIRST WONDER DRUG 

 FOR REDUCING!" 

 First the mechanism is brought into the headline to establish 

 a point of difference—to make the old claims fresh and believable 

 again. And then—once the prospect is told that here is a brand-

 new chance for success— then the claim can he restated in full, to 

 make sure that she realizes everything she is getting. Like this: 

 "FLOATS FAT RIGHT 

 OUT OF YOUR BODY!" 

 Released for the first time! The amazing scientific dis-

 coverv that melts up to 37 POUNDS off men and women— 

 without starvation diets, without a single hungry moment— 

 without even giving up the foods you love! 

 Or—using the same Third-Stage arrangement of mechanism 

 in the headline, and claim elaborated in the lead paragraph—we 

 have this ad: 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 44 

 T H E SOPHISTICATION O F YOUR MARKET 

 "FIRST WONDER DRUG 

 FOR REDUCING!" 

 Used successfully by thousands of phvsicians! Lose as 

 many pounds as you like without diets, without exercise, 

 without giving up the kinds of food vou love to eat! 

 In both these ads—and all others like them—the promise it-

 self is subordinated to the mechanism which accomplishes that 

 promise. This mechanism is featured in the headline. When ads 

 such as these are successful, you are dealing with a market that 

 is in its Third Stage of Sophistication. 

 The Fourth Stage 

 But you are still in a competitive market, and such ads give 

 only a temporary advantage. Such ads, presenting a new promise, 

 begin a new trend. Within a few months, the Third Stage of So-

 phistication passes into a Fourth Stage—a new stage of elabora-

 tion and enlargement. But this time, the elaboration is concen-

 trated on the mechanism, rather than on the promise—like this: 

 "FIRST NO-DIET REDUCING 

 WONDER DRUG!" 

 This Fourth Stage strategy can be summarized like this: 

 If a competitor has just introduced a new mechanism to 

 achieve the same claim as that performed by your product, and 

 that new-mechanism announcement is producing sales, then you 

 counter in this way. Simply elaborate or enlarge upon the suc- 

 cessful mechanism. Make it easier, quicker, surer; allow it to solve 

 more of the problem; overcome old limitations; promise extra bene- 

 fits. You are beginning a stage of embellishment similar to the 

 Second Stage of Sophistication described above. The same strat- 

 egy will be effective here. 

 But, unfortunately, so will the same limitations. The Fourth 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E SOPHISTICATION O F YOUR MARKET 4 5 

 Stage of Sophistication, like the Second Stage which it resem-

 bles, eventually pushes itself out of the realm of believabilitv. At 

 this point, further elaborations become ineffective. You are then 

 faced with two alternatives: 

 First, discovering a new, acceptable mechanism to make the 

 promise fresh and believable again. But remember, the mecha-

 nism vou use must not only be new and legitimate, but it must 

 be accepted as believable and significant by vour market. Each 

 Third and Fourth Stage ad that precedes you, makes this prob-

 lem of acceptance more and more difficult. 

 Eventually, of course, no new mechanism will gain accep-

 tance. The market will have grown tired of your promises and 

 the mechanisms bv which thev are accomplished. Your prospects 

 will have been glutted bv advertising. You will have reached the 

 Fifth Stage of Sophistication—the most difficult—where the field 

 is said to be exhausted—where competitors are dropping out of 

 the market en masse. 

 How to Revive a "Dead" Product 

 In this Final Stage of Sophistication, your market no longer 

 believes in your advertising, and therefore no longer wishes to he 

 aware of your product. In many ways, therefore, this Fifth Stage 

 of Sophistication corresponds to the Fifth Stage of Awareness dis- 

 cussed in Chapter 2. The problems are the same. The strategy is 

 the same. The emphasis shifts from the promise and the mecha- 

 nism which accomplishes it, to identification with the prospect 

 himself. You are dealing here with the problem of bringing your 

 prospect into your ad — not through desire — but through identi- 

 fication. (See Chapter 8.) 

 An outstanding example of a product which had lost its mar-

 ket because of such a Fifth Stage of Sophistication, and then 

 gained it back by a brilliant use of the identification headline, is 

 the Postum ad discussed in Chapter 2, and its headline, "WHY 

 MEN CRACK . . ." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 4 6 T H E SOPHISTICATIO N O F YOUR MARKE T 

 T H E SOI'HI 

 Let's Look at an Industry That Went Through 

 All Five Stages of Sophistication 

 But perhaps the classic example of an industry which en-

 countered all five Stages of Sophistication—and overcame them— 

 is the Cigarette Industry. The history of cigarette advertising is 

 a continuous battle against competition, against physical and so-

 cial taboos, even against the very success of its own current ad-

 and hciiai: 

 vertising; which saturates and exhausts the market bv the weight 

 of its combined industry expenditures, and constantly demands 

 new approaches. 

 Let's briefly examine the main current of cigarette advertis-

 ing first—the progression from the first to the fifth Stages of 

 Sophistication—and then discuss some of the side problems it 

 encountered. 

 In the First Stage of Sophistication, when the market was 

 new, cigarette advertising featured taste, enjoyment, pleasure in 

 the headline: 

 "I'D WALK A MILE FOR A CAMEL!" 

 "CHESTERFIELD—THEY SATISFY!" 

 This raw promise of enjoyment gradually became elaborated 

 and embellished to push it to the limits of believabilitv. In this 

 Second Stage, since you cannot measure the pleasure a cigarette 

 gives you, the promise-growth took the form of broader and 

 broader comparisons: 

 "LIGHT UP A LUCKY, AND YOU WONT MISS 

 THE SWEETS THAT MAKE YOU FAT!" 

 But, without measurement, the limits of enlargement are 

 soon reached. So Third-Stage strategy began to be emploved—a 

 continuous stream of brilliant new mechanisms: 

 "LUCKIES—THEY'RE TOASTED!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N OF YOUR MARKET 4 I 

 "PALL MALL'S GREATER LENGTH FILTERS 

 THE SMOKE FURTHER!" 

 "CAMELS—PROTECT YOUR T-ZONE!" 

 And, as each of these mechanisms was accepted bv the buy-

 ing public, the originators competitors adopted the mechanism 

 and began to elaborate on it—initiating the Fourth Stage: 

 "PHILIP MORRIS—ALL THE HARSHNESS BAKED OUT!" 

 "CHESTERFIELD—REGULAR AND KING-SIZED 

 TOO!" 

 "NINE OUT OF TEN DOCTORS PREFER 

 LUCKIES!" 

 But eventually the mechanisms lost their potency, and the 

 government ruled out the health claims; and in the early Fifties 

 the industry faced a Fifth Stage market. But a new marketing 

 tool—Motivation Research—had shown them how to reach this 

 market without mechanisms or claims, without even headlines, 

 simply by projecting strong visual identifications with the virility 

 that the public had accepted in a cigarette. For example, anv of 

 the Marlboro "Virile Men" ads. Or their imitations in Chester-

 field, or Camel ads. 

 Thus we have the full spectrum of sophistication confronting 

 an industry. But cigarette advertisers also encountered two crit-

 ical side problems. The first offered them the opportunity of dou-

 bling their market. The second, of retaining that huge market in 

 the face of the most adverse publicity 

 The first challenge occurred immediately following the First 

 World War. By this time the old "Coffin Nails" taboo had been 

 forgotten—for men. But there still remained the equally great po-

 tential market of women smokers—if smoking could be made re-

 spectable for women. The trend was definitely in that direction— 

 the urge, the curiosity existed in millions of women in all social 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 4 8 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N O F YOUR MARKE T 

 classes—.some respectable women were actually daring to smoke 

 in public. 

 But the trend—left by itself—would take years to develop. An 

 advertisement had to be created to accelerate that trend. To make 

 smoking for women not only acceptable, but desirable. To channel 

 the vast movement toward liberation and equality of the Twenties 

 as the driving force to open up this huge new market. 

 But such an advertisement could never come right out and 

 suggest that women smoke. It could not even show a woman 

 smoking. Such an advertisement was definitely a Fifth Stage prob-

 lem—a problem in identification. And it was solved by linking a 

 man and woman in their most appealing connection—in love 

 with a smoking situation. T h e ad showed a young couple, sitting 

 together on a beach on a moonlit night. He is just lighting up 

 a cigarette—the first puffs of smoke are just drifting into the 

 moonlight. She has h e r face turned toward his, and her words 

 make up the entire headline (and, except for the logo, the en-

 tire ad): 

 "BLOW SOME MY WAV." 

 Nothing more needed to be said. A vast new market—opened 

 up with four words. 

 The second challenge occurred thirty vears later. This was 

 the cancer scare of the late Fifties, which continues into today 

 It resulted in four reactions: First, there were cigarette holders, 

 water pipes, ceramic filters, etc.—none of which succeeded in es-

 tablishing a national market, since they represented too much 

 inconvenience, too blatant an admission that the purchaser was 

 worried about his smoking. 

 Secondly, the scare produced a determined effort in the in-

 dustry itself to conduct its own research, to counteract or cor-

 rect such claims. 

 Third, it produced a temporary drop in cigarette sales. 

 And, fourth, it opened up a vast new market for an already 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N O F YOUR MARKET 

 49 

 existing product—the filter cigarette—aided by the industry it-

 self, which wisely gambled that smokers would not move out of 

 cigarettes, but simply into a different kind of cigarette. 

 Filter cigarettes had always existed, as a small, specialty mar-

 ket. But now they were expanded into a mass market. Millions 

 of new prospects, who had never before even considered filter 

 cigarettes, now sought out information about them, asked to be 

 told which one to b u y A new market opened up. And it started 

 to retrace the same Stages of Sophistication as its parent market 

 had passed through fifty years before: 

 First Stage: 

 "KENT'S MICRONITE FILTER TRAPS TARS BE-

 FORE THEY REACH YOUR LIPS'" 

 Second Stage: 

 "20,000 FILTER TRAPS IN VICEROY!" 

 Third Stage: 

 "PARLIAMENT—THE MOST IMPORTANT V* INCH 

 IN SMOKING TODAY—NO FILTER FEEDBACK!" 

 Fourth Stage: 

 "TAREYTON—DUAL FILTER FOR DOUBLE THE 

 PLEASURE!" 

 And the Fifth Stage—in an industry-wide stroke of genius— 

 right back to the flavor again: 

 "WINSTON TASTES GOOD LIKE A CIGARETTE 

 SHOULD!" 

 "IT'S WHAT'S UP FRONT THAT COUNTS!" 

 "L & M HAS FOUND THE SECRET THAT UN-

 LOCKS THE FLAVOR!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 50 

 T H E S O P H I S T I C A T I O N O F YOUR MARKET 

 And so it goes. In industry after industry. The same life cycle 

 for each market. The same deadly challenges. The same willing-

 ness to adapt rather than perish. 

 A Personal Note 

 In this book I have tried to write a scientific study of ad-

 vertising, without troubling the reader with whatever personal 

 ethics I myself may observe. Every copv writer who has ever 

 sweated for days to create a new approach will know how it 

 feels to see that approach copied overnight bv a competitor. I 

 share every ounce of that feeling. But such events happen every 

 day. And they are effective. Therefore, examples such as those 

 detailed above must be listed, in all objectivitv, as a business 

 strategy that has and will solve competitive problems in a com-

 petitive industry. I include them here—not as recommendations, 

 but as possible strategies to be chosen or rejected. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 4 

 38 WAYS TO STRENGTHEN 

 YOUR HEADLINE 

 ONCE YOU HAVE YOUR 

 BASIC IDEA 

 Up to this point, we have been 

 concerned with the strategy of planning copv—of arriving at the 

 theme of our ad and the content of its headline—rather than 

 with the techniques of actually writing this copy. The entire sec-

 ond portion of the book will be devoted to these techniques. 

 But we must pause now, and examine one of these techniques 

 out of sequence. It is called VERBALIZATION. And it is the 

 art of increasing the impact of a headline bi/ the way in which 

 it is stated. 

 Everything we have done so far lias helped us obtain the 

 content of our headline. We now know what we want to say. And 

 we now have to determine how to sav it. 

 The most obvious wav, of course, is simplv to state the claim 

 in its barest form. "Lose Weight," or "Stop Corns." for example. 

 And if you are the first in vour field, there is no better wav. 

 But where vou are competitive, or where the thought is too 

 51 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 52 

 38 WAYS TO S T R E N G T H E N YOUR H E A D L I N E 

 complicated to be stated simply and directly, then you must re- 

 inforce that claim by binding other images to it with the words 

 in which you express it. This is Verbalization. And it can ac-

 complish several different purposes: 

 1. It can strengthen the claim—bv enlarging upon it, by mea-

 suring it, by making it more vivid, etc. 

 2. It can make the claim new and fresh again —bv twisting 

 it, changing it, presenting it from a different angle, turning it into 

 a narration, challenging the reader with an example, etc. 

 3. It can help the claim pull the prospect into the body of 

 the ad —by promising him information about it, bv questioning 

 him, by partially revealing mechanism, etc. 

 All of these goals are accomplished by adding variations, en-

 largements or embellishments to the main headline claim of the 

 ad. These additional images are bound into the main claim bv 

 the sentence structure of the headline. Thev alter the main claim 

 to make it more effective. 

 They are the second creative step in writing the ad. First, 

 we have seen how to determine the appeal itself. And now, how-

 to shape that appeal into its most effective form in the headline. 

 There are, of course, an infinite number of these variations 

 (every good copywriter invents a few himself). But there are gen-

 eral patterns that most of them follow. Here are some of these 

 guideposts for vour own thinking: 

 1. Measure the size of the claim: 

 "20,000 FILTER TRAPS IN VICEROY!" 

 "I AM 61 POUNDS LIGHTER . . ." 

 'WHO EVER HEARD OF 17,000 BLOOMS 

 FROM A SINGLE PLANT?" 

 2. Measure the speed of the claim: 

 "FEEL BETTER FAST!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 3 8 WAYS T O S T R E N G T H E N YOUR H E A D L I N E 5 3 

 "7A7 TWO SECONDS, BAYER ASPIRIN BEGINS 

 TO DISSOLVE IN YOUR GLASS!'" 

 3. Compare the claim: 

 "SIX TIMES WHITER WASHES!" 

 "COSTS UP TO $300 LESS THAN MANY MOD-

 ELS OF THE LOW-PRICED THREE!" 

 4. Metaphorize the claim: 

 "BANISHES CORNS!" 

 "MELTS AWAY UGLY FAT!" 

 5. Sensitize the claim bv making the prospect feel, smell, 

 touch, see or hear it: 

 "TASTES LIKE YOU JUST PICKED IT!" 

 "THE SKIN YOU LOVE TO TOUCH!" 

 6. Demonstrate the claim bv showing a prime example: 

 "JAKE LAMOTTA, 160 POUND FIGHTER, FAILS 

 TO FLATTEN MONO PAPER CUP!" 

 "AT 60 MILES AN HOUR, THE LOUDEST NOISE 

 IN THIS ROLLS ROYCE IS THE ELECTRIC CLOCK!" 

 7. Dramatize the claim, or its result: 

 "HERE'S AN EXTRA 850, GRACE—I'M MAK-

 ING BIG MONEY NOW!" 

 "THEY LAUGHED WHEN I SAT DOWN AT 

 THE PIANO—BUT WHEN I STARTED TO PLAY . . ." 

 8. State the claim as a paradox: 

 "HOW A BALD-HEADED BARBER SAVED MY 

 HAIR!" 

 "BEAT THE RACES BY PICKING LOSERS!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 5 4 3 8 WAYS T O S T R E N G T H E N YOUR H E A D L I N E 

 9. Remove limitations from the claim: 

 "SHRINKS HEMORRHOIDS WITHOUT SUR- 

 GERY!" 

 "YOU BREATHE NO DUSTY ODORS WHEN 

 YOU DO IT WITH LEWYT!" 

 10. Associate the claim with values or people with whom 

 the prospect wishes to be identified: 

 "MICKEY MANTLE SAYS: CAMELS NEVER 

 BOTHER MY THROAT!" 

 "9 OUT OF 10 DECORATORS USE WUNDA-

 WEAVE CARPETS FOR LONG LIFE AT LOW COST!" 

 11. Show how much work, in detail, the claim does: 

 "NOW! RELIEF FROM ALL 5 ACID-CAUSED 

 STOMACH TROUBLES—IK SECONDS!" 

 "RELIEVES CONGESTION IN ALL 7 NASAL 

 PASSAGES INSTANTLY!" 

 12. State the claim as a question: 

 "WHO ELSE WANTS A WHITER WASH—WITH 

 NO HARD WORK?" 

 "COULD YOU USE $25 A WEEK EXTRA IN-

 COME?" 

 13. Offer information about how to accomplish the claim: 

 "HOW TO WIN FRIENDS AND INFLUENCE 

 PEOPLE!" 

 "HERE'S WHAT TO DO TO GET RID OF 

 PIMPLES FAST!" 

 14. Tie authority into the claim: 

 "BOSS MECHANIC SHOWS HOW TO AVOID 

 ENGINE REPAIR BILLS!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 3 8 WAYS T O S T R E N G T H E N YOUR H E A D L I N E 

 "HERE'S WHAT DOCTORS DO WHEN THEY 

 FEEL ROTTEN!" 

 15. Before-and-after the claim: 

 "BEFORE COLDENE A CHILD GOT OVER A 

 COLD AFTER 5 DAYS OF ACHING, SNEEZING, 

 WHEEZING, DRIPPING, SUFFERING, COUGH-

 ING, CRYING, GAGGING, SPITTING." 

 "WITH COLDENE A CHILD GETS OVER A 

 COLD IN FIVE DAYS!" 

 16. Stress the newness of the claim: 

 "ANNOUNCING! GUIDED MISSILE SPARK 

 PLUGS!" 

 "NOW! CHROME PLATE WITHOUT HEAT, 

 ELECTRICITY, MACHINERY!" 

 17. Stress the exclusivity of the claim: 

 "OURS ALONE! PERSIAN LAMB ORIGINALS— 

 $389.40!" 

 "ONLY GLEEM HAS GL-70 TO KEEP TEETH 

 CLEAN ALL DAY LONG WITH ONE BRUSHING!" 

 18. Turn the claim into a challenge for the reader: 

 "WHICH TWIN HAS THE TONI? AND WHICH 

 HAS THE $15 PERMANENT?" 

 "DOES SHE OR DOESN'T SHE? HAIR COL-

 ORING SO NATURAL ONLY HER HAIRDRESSER 

 KNOWS FOR SURE!" 

 19. State the claim as a case-history quotation: 

 "LOOK, MOM—NO CAVITIES!" 

 "WOULD YOU BELIEVE IT—I HAVE A COLD!" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 •56 38 WAYS TO S T R E N G T H E N YOUR H E A D L I N E 

 20. Condense the claim—interchange your product and the 

 product it replaces: 

 "NOW! A RING AND PISTON JOB IN A TUBE!" 

 "POUR YOURSELF A NEW ENGINE!" 

 21. Symbolize the claim—replace the direct statement or 

 measurement of the claim with a parallel reality: 

 "STARTING NEXT TUESDAY, THE ATLANTIC 

 OCEAN BECOMES ONLY ONE-FIFTH AS LONG!" 

 22. Connect the mechanism to the claim in the headline: 

 "FLOATS FAT RIGHT OUT OF YOUR BODY!" 

 "FEEDS W\STE GAS FUMES BACK INTO 

 YOUR ENGINE!" 

 23. Startle the reader by contradicting the wav he thinks the 

 mechanism should work: 

 " H I T HELL OUT OF THE BALL WITH YOUR 

 RIGHT HAND,' SAYS TOMMY ARMOUR!" 

 24. Connect the need and the claim in the headline: 

 "THERE IS ONLY ONE SOLUTION TO AN AD-

 VERTISING PROBLEM: FIND THE MAN!" 

 25. Offer information in the ad itself: 

 "WHY MEN CRACK . . ." 

 "WHAT EVERYBODY OUGHT TO KNOW ABOUT 

 THIS STOCK AND BOND BUSINESS!" 

 26. Turn the claim or the need into a case historv: 

 "AUNT MEG, WHO NEVER MARRIED . . ." 

 "AGAIN SHE ORDERS—A CHICKEN SALAD, 

 PLEASE'" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 3 8 WAYS T O S T R E N G T H E N YOUR H E A D L I N E 5 7 

 27. Give a name to the problem or need: 

 "WHEN YOU'RE WEARY WITH DAY-TIME FA- 

 TIGUE, TAKE ALKA-SELTZER." 

 28. Warn the reader about possible pitfalls if he doesn't use 

 the product: 

 "DON'T INVEST ONE CENT OF YOUR HARD- 

 EARNED MONEY UNTIL YOU CHECK THIS GUIDE!" 

 29. Emphasize the claim bv its phraseology—bv breaking it 

 into two sentences, or repeating it, or a part of it: 

 "A MAN YOU CAN LEAN ON! THAT'S KLOPER-

 MAN!" 

 "NOBODY BUT NOBODY UNDERSELLS GIM-

 BEL'S!" 

 30. Show how easv the claim is to accomplish bv imposing 

 a imiversallv-overcome limitation: 

 "IF YOU CAN COUNT TO ELEVEN, YOU CAN-

 INCREASE YOUR SPEED AND SKILL AT NUM-

 BERS!" 

 31. State the difference in the headline: 

 "THE DIFFERENCE IN PREMIUM GASO-

 LINES IS RIGHT IN THE ADDITIVES!" 

 32. Surprise vour reader into realizing that former limita-

 tions have now been overcome: 

 "SEE WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU CRUSH A 

 HARTMAN DC-8? NOTHING!" 

 33. Address the people who can't buv vour product: 

 "IF YOU'VE ALREADY TAKEN YOUR VACA-

 TION, DON'T READ THIS. IT'LL BREAK YOUR 

 HEART." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 5 8 3 8 WAYS T O S T R E N G T H E N YOUR H E A D L I N E 

 34. Address your prospect directly: 

 "TO THE MAN WHO WILL SETTLE FOR 

 NOTHING LESS THAN THE PRESIDENCY OF HIS 

 FIRM." 

 35. Dramatize how hard it was to produce the claim: 

 "WHEN JENS FINISHED DESIGNING THIS 

 CANDLEHOLDER WE HAD TO INVENT A WHOLE 

 NEW KIND OF CANDLE." 

 36. Accuse the claim of being too good: 

 "IS IT IMMORAL TO MAKE MONEY THIS 

 EASILY?" 

 37. Challenge the prospects present limiting beliefs: 

 "YOU ARE TWICE AS SMART AS YOU THINK." 

 38. Turn the claim into a question and answer: 

 "YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT'S UNDER THE 

 HOOD AND YOU COULDN'T CARE LESS AS LONG 

 AS YOUR CAR RUNS SMOOTHLY. WHO SHOULD 

 YOU SEE IF IT D O E S N ' T ? . . . SOMEONE WHO 

 CARES—UNITED DELCO." 

 And so on: an infinite number of variations. Trv to create 

 your own—tomorrow. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SUMMARY: THE ART OF 

 CREATIVE PLANNING— 

 H O W TO MAKE AN IDEA 

 GROW 

 Now, let's look at a few special 

 headline problems, and then sum up: 

 The Three Levels of Creativity 

 Something should be said here about the various approaches 

 copy writers use to dig up a new headline. As far as I can tell, 

 there are three of them: 

 The first, the shallowest, and the most widespread and in-

 effective, is the Word-Substitute Technique. Here the copy writer 

 consults a list of proven and successful headlines. He then pulls 

 out the original product name and substitutes his own; or his own 

 product's performance, etc. He usually comes up with something 

 like this: 

 "I'D WALK A MILE FOR A CUP OF BLANK 

 COFFEE!" 

 59 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 60 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART OF CREATIVE P L A N N I N G 

 "WHY HAVEN'T BOAT OWNERS BEEN TOLD 

 THESE FACTS?" 

 "FLOATS UGLY PIMPLES RIGHT OUT OF YOUR 

 SKIN!" 

 If these ads are copied from a similar product, in the same 

 market, at the same time, then their chance of success is good— 

 especially if they embellish the promise in any way. But if the 

 product, or the market, or the timing is different, then the chances 

 of success diminish proportionately They become Echo Ads 

 ads that remind people of some other product. Thev pav no at-

 tention to unique product-market-timing relationship that exists 

 at the moment. Therefore they lose all the strengths that are 

 wrapped up in that relationship. They are the kind of ads that 

 clients write, rather than copy writers. 

 The second, deeper and more difficult approach is through 

 formulas. Here the copy writer has memorized a list of rules or 

 principles, and tries to pour his headline into them like he'd 

 pour hot lead into a mold. Such rules usually concern the way 

 a headline is expressed. They list methods of strengthening the 

 verbalization of the headline idea, and here thev have a perfectly-

 valid use. Several examples of these principles are given in Chap-

 ter 4. 

 But the idea for an ad or a headline demands its own shape. 

 It cannot be fitted into someone else's solution. The problem de-

 fies a formula. And the third, analytical approach that we have 

 outlined above—with no answers; only guide-posts and ques-

 tions—offers the onlv wav. 

 This is a hard fact to accept. It means that a solution which 

 has cost you days and weeks of painful effort, and which has 

 done its job perfectly—can be used only once. It means that 

 there are no creative shortcuts—that the effort must be duplicated 

 with each individual ad. But fortunately the techniques of 

 probing can be learned and perfected; intuition can be sharpened; 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART O F CREATIVE P L A N N I N G D i 

 a sensitivity can be developed for picking out the vital fact from 

 a maze of information. 

 And, of course, abandoning this effort leads to a reality which 

 is even harsher. Manx' copy writers grow old, or tired, or afraid. 

 They stop searching for the unique solution in every problem. 

 From this moment on, they begin to copy instead of create. And 

 most pathetic of all, main' begin to copy themselves. The more 

 successful the copv writer, the greater the temptation to find his 

 new headline in his old files. 

 But it won't work. Copying can be done by any cub. All this 

 process does is bring talent down to the level of file-cabinet medi-

 ocrity. The true copy writer must argue with success—he must 

 push on past it every time he faces a new product. In advertis-

 ing, as well as in science and in art, the solution to the unique 

 lies only in itself. 

 On Motivation Research and Its 

 Relation to the Copy Writer 

 As we have repeated throughout this first part of the book, 

 the copy writer's primary job is to know his market. Many times, 

 he has to know more about that market than the market knows 

 about itself. 

 Before MR, he did this mostly by personal digging, reading, 

 talking—and guessing. With MR, lie has some pretty professional 

 guessers working with him. And they have the equipment to prove 

 their guesses far more easily and inexpensively than writing a 

 campaign and testing it. 

 The copy writer can use MR in two ways. It can be a 

 tremendous source of information to him. Information about 

 the most powerful needs and desires of his market—desires that 

 may be hidden, verbally unacceptable, or completely unknown. 

 It shows him the strength of those desires—their drift and mo-

 mentum—the taboos that accompany them, and limit their ex-

 pression. It helps him locate splits in his market—gauge their 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 62 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART OF CREATIVE P L A N N I N G 

 points of difference—design pinpoint appeals for each of them. 

 And it feeds back to him early reactions to his own phraseol-

 ogy—to test his own worry-points in the ad—to enable him to 

 shift emphasis—and even to emerge with a completely new idea. 

 All well and good. But a motivation research finding is not 

 a headline, nor even the central theme of an ad, nor will it ever 

 be. Like any other fact, it is a direction. First it tells vou where 

 not to go, to avoid wasting your time. And then it indicates the 

 general area of your solution. 

 But the transformation of those facts into an idea, and the 

 expression of that idea in the strongest possible form, still re-

 quires as much creative talent as any other starting point. The 

 source of an idea, no matter how profound, is still only the be-

 ginning. The copy writer has to take it from there. 

 The second great service that MR can perform for the copy-

 writer is that of testing his own hunches, in answering the ques-

 tions he uncovers in dealing with his market over a period of 

 time. 

 For purposes of simplicity, we have dealt with advertising 

 strategy as though it always consisted of writing a single ad— 

 rather than a continuous campaign. By limiting ourselves in this 

 way, we have been able to deal with each of the phases of such 

 a campaign as though it were a separate and distinct problem, 

 requiring a separate and distinct advertisement to solve it. In 

 doing this, we have emphasized that a breakthrough can occur 

 at any stage of a campaign; and that the same breakthrough tech-

 niques can be used to produce the germ idea for the entire cam-

 paign that follows. 

 In reality, however, the copy writer usually works on a given 

 product, or in a given market area, for long periods of time. Dur-

 ing that time he will write many ads on this same subject. And 

 during that time he will engage in a kind of discourse with his 

 market, in which he feeds that market ideas, and it feeds back 

 to him reactions to those ideas. 

 During this massive conversation, if he is sensitive, the copy 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART OF CREATIVE P L A N N I N G 

 63 

 writer will pick up a continuous flow of the most vital informa-

 tion. Some of this information will be actual trends and prefer-

 ences, which can be immediately translated into new ads. But 

 much more of it will be in negative form—failures, roadblocks, 

 limitations to the response from his ads. And only the statistical 

 measurements of these limitations will be shown—not their causes. 

 The copywriter will want to know why they occur. And in ask-

 ing whv, he will give birth to questions like these: 

 What causes one woman to make most of her clothes at 

 home, and another woman to use her sewing machine only for 

 minor repairs? 

 How can we convince more people that it's safe to buy 

 through mail order? 

 Why will men instantlv buy an automatic potato peeler—and 

 women send it right back to the store again? 

 These are research questions. They deal with psychological 

 dimensions. The copv writer discovers them, and passes them 

 along to his MR people to be phrased, tested and answered. Thus 

 is born a new idea, a new theme, and a new headline, perhaps 

 even a new campaign. 

 On Expressing the Personality of a 

 Product in Your Headline 

 One of the most potent discoveries of motivation research 

 is that a product, or a store, or a whole group of products has a 

 distinct and complete personality to the consumer. This person-

 ality is a complex quality, embracing many traits. In the case of 

 the Cadillac, for example, it consists of quality, prestige, perfor-

 mance, appearance, comfort, resale value, freedom from repairs 

 and much more. 

 But—and this is the important point to consider in writing 

 vour headline— one of these traits will always be the most effec- 

 tive in summarizing and expressing this personality. In the case 

 of Cadillac, it has always been, and will always be, quality. This 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 64 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART OF CREATIVE PLANNING 

 summary trait is featured in a series of headlines, or headline il-

 lustrations—perhaps blended with one or two of the other traits 

 to give it variety but always strengthening those other traits bv 

 interrelating them to this one dominant quality. 

 Thus the personality is simplified, symbolized and sharp-

 ened to grasp the reader. And then—as the reader moves on 

 through the body copy of the ad—this personality is expanded 

 and examined in all its appeals—an ever-enlarging pyramid of 

 persuasion, drawing in all the necessary information—charging 

 that information with desire—terminating inevitably in the one 

 source of satisfaction for that desire—vour product. 

 We will examine this concept more thoroughly in Chapter 

 8—on Identification. 

 On the Only Type of Prevention Headline That Will Sell 

 Many copy writers believe that no prevention headline (be-

 cause it treats a problem that may occur and that is not actually 

 plaguing your prospect at this moment) can ever be effective. 

 The reason they give for this failure is the inability of the prospect 

 to identify himself with a problem that has not already forced it-

 self upon him. 

 This is true— but only for those problems which affect him 

 personally. He is perfectly capable of imagining such problems 

 afflicting his loved ones, his friends, his wife and children, even 

 his nation. This is why decay-preventing toothpaste sold so well 

 when the ads focussed the decay, not on the parent, but on the 

 children. This is why life insurance can be sold, not by picturing 

 the prospects death, but the horrors inflicted upon his wife and 

 children if insufficient money is left over to take care of them. 

 To sum up: A man will not visualize future disasters occur-

 ring to himself, but he is perfectly capable of visualizing, and 

 buying preventatives from, the image of such future problems 

 affecting others around him. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SUMMARY: 

 ': T H E ART OF CREATIVE P L A N N I N G 

 65 

 On the Selection of Splinter Markets to Avoid Competition 

 Throughout this book, we have assumed that each competi-

 tor in a market will trv to advertise to that market as a whole. 

 For example, that every reducing aid will try to sell all women 

 that are interested in losing weight. 

 This assumption is not necessarily true, in at least two re-

 spects. First, it assumes that such a market is all of one piece (for 

 example, that all women want to lose weight for the same reason). 

 Thev do not, of course. There are at least two major sub-categories 

 in the market—those who want to lose weight for appearance rea-

 sons, and those who must lose weight because of their health. The 

 same general appeal—LOSE WEIGHT—will be effective with 

 both. But certainly the mechanisms should vary—speed and ease 

 in the first—safetv and permanence in the second. 

 Secondly, a small company with a limited budget may avoid 

 competing with larger rivals for the core of the market, and may 

 concentrate its attack on a smaller segment of that market. This 

 is usually done regionally. But it may be even more effective if 

 it is based on the sociology of the market rather than its geog-

 raphy. For example, a reducing aid may decide to abandon the 

 greater appearance segment of the market, and appeal much more 

 specifically to the health segment. This deliberate focussing of 

 the appeal would alter every aspect of the campaign, from the 

 headline, through identification copy, through mechanism and 

 substantiation—right down to the selection of media and chan-

 nels of distribution. (Health and geriatric magazines, and distri-

 bution through doctors rather than drug stores.) 

 Eventually, of course, if the appeal is successful and the bud-

 get grows, then the advertiser can decide to invade the majority 

 market. If he does this, the success of the initial limited cam-

 paign can be used as a point of difference to appeal to the larger 

 market. For example, the fact that women who were forced to 

 lose weight permanently relied on this product more than twice 

 as often as any other, etc. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 66 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART OF CREATIVE P L A N N I N G 

 In Summary 

 The first five chapters of this book, which vou have just fin-

 ished, describe a process which may take days, or weeks, or 

 months to complete. 

 This process begins with a thorough analysis of the market 

 for your client's product—with an attempt to measure the breadth 

 and depth of that market—to identify the gigantic emotional forces 

 that create that market—to define and focus those forces in terms 

 of a single image or desire or need—and to channel those forces 

 toward one inevitable solution—vour client's product. 

 In order to do this, the second step of this process involves 

 a meticulous study of the product itself—what it is and what it 

 does—the physical product that you will deliver, and the func-

 tional product that you will sell—all its various satisfactions and 

 performances—again focussed to a single image, a single identi-

 fication, a single claim that will tap the greatest possible emo-

 tional force within your market. 

 The combination of these first and second steps gives you 

 the theme of your ad—the desire your market demands and its 

 satisfaction . . . the need your market feels and its solution . . . the 

 identification your market gropes for and its expression. 

 And once you discover this theme, you begin the process of 

 expressing it. You explore the state of maturity of vour market. 

 You find out how much people know about vour product and 

 what it does—how much they've been told about similar prod-

 ucts—and how much they care about both. 

 Out of this analysis comes the point of entrv for vour head-

 line—the point of contact—the point of greatest interest and 

 acceptance on the part of your prospect. It may be located any-

 where—in your product itself, in its price, in its performance, 

 in the satisfaction your product promises, in the need vour mar-

 ket demands from your product, or only in the market itself. 

 But, wherever it is, this is the point where vou start. Here the 

 searching and the planning stop. Here the words begin. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART OF CREATIVE P L A N N I N G 

 Again, this process may take weeks or even months. And at 

 the end of that time, you may have written five or ten words. 

 These five or ten words will make up about 90% of the value 

 of your ad. If you are right, they may start a new industry. If you 

 are wrong, nothing you write after them will save your ad. Copy 

 writing—on the idea level—is an all or nothing profession. You 

 build your idea, piece by piece . . . you crowd it into five or ten 

 words . . . and then it stands or dies by itself. And everything that 

 follows it, stands or dies with it. This is why we have devoted so 

 much time to this planning process. 

 And it is a process. You don't get an idea or a headline— 

 vou either build it, or vou unfold it, petal by petal. You dig it 

 out of the market research . . . vou wring it out of the product . . . 

 you read, you listen, you experiment for yourself. You work— 

 hard. You rub up against this product and this market so hard 

 that they seep into vour pores. And—above everything else— you 

 remember this cardinal ride of creativity: 

 What you are looking for in this product and this market is 

 the one element that makes them unique. The idea you want — 

 the headline you want — the breakthrough you want — are all 

 wrapped up inside that product and that market. Nowhere else. 

 And no outside ride — no outside formula will give them to 

 you. You are facing a product-market-timing relationship that 

 never happened before — it is unique. And the solution you need 

 is just as unique. 

 What this first part of the book has tried to give vou is not 

 molds, but compasses. Not formulas to copy word by word, or 

 rules to rigidlv follow. But rather guide-posts to set your think-

 ing in the right direction. Specifically and technically, these guide-

 posts fall into two classes: 

 The first are analytical procedures. Their purpose is to break 

 down a complicated problem into its parts . . . to examine those 

 parts one bv one . . . to find out which is the most important— 

 and to start your solution from there. 

 Once you have done this, you then begin to build up your 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 68 

 SUMMARY: T H E ART OF CREATIVE P L A N N I N G 

 solution to its greatest power. You do this bv removing limiting 

 factors, and bv adding everything you can find that will strengthen 

 your idea. If we wrote literature instead of advertising, these two 

 processes would be called conception and execution. In copy writ-

 ing, we sav that we get the main theme for our ad, and then we 

 put it into a headline. 

 And when vou have finished, vou have five or ten words. If 

 thev are the right words, thev will be immensely valuable. But 

 they still will be onlv the start. Thev are the end of one road, and 

 the beginning of another. Thev are the imitation to vour ad—the 

 hand vou extend to your prospect for vour product. Your job is 

 now to make that introduction worth while—for both parties. 

 In the remainder of the book, we shall discuss the tech-

 niques of writing the bodv copy of vour ad. These techniques are 

 directed toward one end: building conviction —not onlv instilling 

 the desire for vour product, but actually strengthening that de-

 sire with the belief that that product will DO what the prospect 

 wants. 

 We now turn to this process of building vour ad, so that vour 

 ad builds conviction. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PART 2 

 THE SEVEN BASIC 

 TECHNIQUES OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH 

 ADVERTISING 

 How to write body copy 

 as strong as your headline 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 6 

 INSIDE YOUR PROSPECT'S 

 MEND—WHAT MAKES 

 PEOPLE READ, WANT, 

 BEIJEVE 

 You have now built vour headline. 

 You now have a means of stopping your prospect—of bringing 

 to a momentary halt all the diverse activities of his mind—of fo-

 cussing his attention, at least for a moment, on a single thought. 

 This is the job that you have designed vour headline to do—not 

 to sell, or identify your product, or even mention the need or 

 desire that your product satisfies—but simply and solelv to flag 

 down your prospect, and get him to read your first paragraph. 

 From that moment on, your body copy does the selling. It 

 does this by altering your prospect's vision of reality. It creates 

 a new world for your prospect — a world in which your product 

 emerges as the fulfillment of the dominant desire that caused this 

 man to respond to your headline. 

 To create this world, your copy must expand or alter one 

 or more of the three dimensions of his alreadv-existing mental 

 world. This is the task of the r e m a i n d e r of your ad. Your copv 

 71 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 l A INSID E YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S M I N D 

 must be long enough to accomplish this change—and the length 

 of your ad will depend on three factors: 

 First, how much copy you need to build his desire for that 

 product—and everything that product can do for him—to its 

 greatest possible strength. 

 Second, how much additional copy you need to make him 

 feel both comfortable and complimented bv that product, to en-

 able him to visualize that product as a part of the life structure 

 that he has built, and is building, for himself. 

 And, finally, how much additional copy vou need to make 

 him believe what you have said—to compensate for his already-

 existing prejudices and beliefs. 

 The answers to these three questions determine not onlv the 

 length of your ad, but also its structure, its development, its 

 style and its pace. Each of these questions relates to a separate 

 dimension of your prospect's mind—different wavs he has of ar-

 ranging thoughts and feelings. In this chapter, we will examine 

 these three dimensions briefly, and sketch in what wavs, and to 

 what extent, you can alter or expand them through vour ad. And 

 then, in the following chapters, we will detail these mechanisms 

 of persuasion thoroughly along with the most effective techniques 

 of presenting them. 

 And then, in the last chapter, we will trv to weave them 

 together into a simple, straight-line, logical progression of images 

 —leading your reader from the headline, through the product, to 

 the actual purchase. 

 Let us start with these three dimensions of thought and 

 feeling: 

 1. Desires 

 These are the wants, needs, cravings, thirsts, hungers, lusts, 

 etc. that drive your prospect through life. They are physical —such 

 as the desire to be thin, or strong, or healthy, or free from acne, 

 corns, bad breath or what have vou. Thev are material —such as 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 INSIDE YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S MIND 7 3 

 the desire to possess monev, or a big car, or a beautiful dress. 

 Thev are sensual —such as the thirst for a cold glass of beer, or 

 the need for a tired bodv to stretch out on a soft bed. 

 They have, of course, tremendous driving power. And thev 

 already exist. You cannot create them, diminish them, or battle 

 them. But you can expand them, sliarpen them, channel them, 

 and give them a goal. And this is vour primary task as a copy 

 writer. 

 Your first task—and in some ads vour only task—is to make 

 vour prospect want. To sharpen his desire. To picture every mo-

 ment of its fulfillment. To let him see it, feel it, touch it, sit in 

 it, listen to his friends rave about it. To make him visualize the 

 wonderful new world your product offers him so strongly that he 

 practically lives in it—and then to offer him that product. The 

 method of doing this—Intensification—will be discussed in the 

 next chapter. 

 2. Identifications 

 These are the roles vour prospect wants to play in life, and 

 the personality traits he wants vour product to help him build, 

 or project. 

 These longings for identification—longings for a sharply-

 defined personality—longings for social status—are, of course, not 

 materia] or physical or sensual at all. Thev complement and in-

 tensify the physical desires—add another dimension to them— 

 bv making each purchase serve a double duty. Thus, not only 

 does a woman buy a low-calorie food to become thin, but in so 

 doing she also builds again a radiant, attractive, youthful per-

 sonality. And not only does a man buy a car for the power, speed 

 and transportation it will give him, but equally as much for the 

 projection of prestige, success and readv-cash-to-burn that this 

 purchase communicates to his neighbors. 

 Call them what you will—goals, hopes, dreams, ambitions, 

 envies, admirations, phantasies or objectives—these subtle, svm-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 INSIDE YOUR P R O S P E C T S MIND 

 bolic, never-openly-spoken projections of our own self-images are 

 immensely powerful sales forces. Your task is to put them directly 

 behind your product. To make him feel the prestigious and se-

 lect group he joins when he becomes a user of that product. To 

 picture for him the people who live in vour product's world todav. 

 3. Beliefs 

 These are the opinions, attitudes, prejudices, fragments of 

 knowledge and conceptions of reality that vour prospect lives bv. 

 This is the world of emotionalized reason that he inhabits—the 

 way he accepts or rejects facts and builds up his universe, the 

 types of thinking he uses to arrive at decisions, the ideas and val-

 ues which give him comfort and which he believes are perma-

 nent and true. 

 These ideas may be shallow or profound, valid or false, per-

 fectly logical or mere wishful thinking. But it is not advertising's 

 mission to argue with them. And no one advertiser can change 

 them. Advertising is not education; it does not have societv as its 

 sponsor, nor does it have the vears of time that are given to ed-

 ucation to produce results. 

 Advertising, like science, must accept reality as it exists, not 

 as it might wish it to exist. Only then can it alter reality—not bv 

 smashing into it head-on—but bv exploiting its tendencies and 

 giving direction to its energies. 

 Believing is a process—a process of fitting new facts into 

 certain established patterns of thought and conviction. People be- 

 lieve in certain ways. These beliefs form a filter through which 

 your product-information must pass or be rejected. And their 

 already-established patterns of reasoning create habit-channels 

 along which your copy must build its conviction—or die. 

 You start with these beliefs as a base. You build up from them 

 by using his kind of logic, not vour own, to prove that vour prod-

 uct satisfies his desires—to prove that your product works—to 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 INSIDE YOUR P R O S P E C T S MIND 

 prove that his kind of people rely on your product—to prove that 

 no other product satisfies his needs as well. 

 The mechanisms for doing this are shown in Chapters 9 

 and 10. 

 There you have them. Desires. . . . Identifications. . . . Beliefs. 

 Each of them composed of equal parts of emotion and thought. 

 The three dimensions of vour prospect's mind—the raw mate-

 rials with which you will work. 

 To study them, we shall deal with each of them separatelv. 

 But, in actually writing your ad, of course, you will weave them 

 into each other —to create a simple, fluid path of thought from 

 the beginning to the end of vour ad. This technique—Blending 

 and Reinforcement—will be the subject of Chapter 14. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 7 

 THE FIRST TECHNIQUE 

 OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: 

 INTENSIFICATION 

 Thirteen Ways to Strengthen Desire 

 The force that creates sales, that 

 powers our present economy, is desire. Mass Desire, spread among 

 millions of men and women. And the art of salesmanship, fun-

 damentally and primarily, is expanding this desire. Expanding it 

 horizontally, among more and more people. Expanding it verti-

 cally by sharpening and magnifying it—by building it to such a 

 pitch that it overcomes the obstacles of skepticism, lethargy and 

 price, and results in the sale. 

 Advertising is salesmanship in print. Therefore, above every-

 thing else, advertising is the literature of desire. It is society's en-

 cyclopedia of dreams . . . our twentieth-century Wish Book. Adver-

 tising giyes form and content to desire. It provides it with a goal. 

 These desires, as they exist in the mind of vour prospect 

 today, are indistinct. They are blurs—hazy, ambiguous, not yet 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 crystallized into words or images. In most cases, tliev are simply 

 vague emotions, without compulsion or direction. And as such, 

 they have only a fraction of their true potential power. 

 Your job is to fill out these vague desires with concrete im- 

 ages — to show your prospect every possible way that they can be 

 fulfilled — to multiply their strength by the number of satisfactions 

 that you can suggest to achieve them. 

 A copy writer's first qualifications are imagination and en-

 thusiasm. You are literally the script writer for vour prospect's 

 dreams. You are the chronicler of his future. Your job is to show 

 him in minute detail all the tomorrows that vour product makes 

 possible for him. 

 This is the core of advertising—its fundamental function. To 

 take unformulated desire, and translate it into one vivid scene of 

 fulfillment after another. To add the appeal of concrete satisfac-

 tion after satisfaction to the basic drive of that desire. To make 

 sure that your prospect realizes everything that he is getting— 

 everything that he is now leaving behind him—everything that 

 he may possibly be missing. 

 The sharper you can draw vour pictures—and the greater 

 the number of them that you can legitimately present—the more 

 your prospect will demand your product, and the less important 

 will seem your price. 

 How much space can you give to this process of Intensifica-

 tion? This depends on two factors—the amount of space allotted 

 to you for the entire ad, and the number of wavs vou can present 

 your images without giving the feeling of repetition or boredom. 

 First of all, different media demand different treatments. For 

 example, catalogs, small-space newspaper and magazine adver-

 tising, radio and television strictly limit the number of words 

 given to you to draw your images. To fit vour message into their 

 structures, you must use either or both of two techniques. The 

 first is compression —the boiling down of projections and images 

 into a few key words. And the second is the campaign —the rep-

 etition of these key words over and over again—along with a 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 7 9 

 progression of embellishments and differentiations—through an 

 entire series of advertisements. 

 We shall see how this is done, in detail, at the end of this 

 chapter. 

 On the other hand, large-space newspaper and magazine ad-

 vertising and especially direct mail give you adequate room, in 

 most cases, to present a full story In these media, the decision 

 as to length depends far more on the second factor— the num- 

 ber of ways you can present your images without giving the feel- 

 ing of repetition or boredom. 

 No matter what you do, your prospect will take with him 

 only one basic idea, one dominant image from vour ad. But with 

 every additional new and different wav that vou can present that 

 idea, it becomes sharper and more real in vour prospect's mind, 

 and it builds up more and more emotional weight. 

 Thus the problem becomes one of perspective, of fresh view-

 points, of new and different detail. Of walking around vour prod-

 uct in your imagination, and presenting it to your prospect in 

 ever}* way in which it enters his life. 

 You are working against two opposing forces. The first, as in 

 your headline, is the amount of material which has already been 

 presented to your prospect about similar products in other ads. 

 There are stages of market sophistication to be dealt with in bodv 

 copy as well as in your headline. If your prospect has read the 

 same phraseology before, he will be bored bv it, no matter where 

 he encounters it again. 

 And the second obstacle is the phraseology of vour own ad. 

 Once you have presented your basic fulfillment in a certain wav; 

 then you must vary your viewpoint in your second description, 

 or not present it again. Otherwise you will lose vour reader in 

 the middle of vour ad. 

 You cannot repeat, but you can reinforce. And every time 

 the same basic promise is given a fresh setting for vour prospect, 

 it reinforces the descriptions that went before it, and makes vour 

 prospect that much more determined to participate. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 80 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 The presenting of a series of fresh, new and different ful-

 fillments for your prospects dominant desire—our first mecha-

 nism of persuasion—is called Intensification. It takes many forms, 

 with many more certainly to be inyented. We will list some of 

 them here, giving the complete copy examples to show how thev 

 have been worked out to deal with specific copy problems. 

 Our illustrations in this part of the book will be drawn mostly 

 from mail order. The reason for this is simple. Mail order ad-

 vertising must accomplish its sale from a single ad, without rely-

 ing on the cumulative force of the campaign, and without help 

 from product display or salespeople. Therefore, mail order tries 

 to present as much of the complete story as possible at one time. 

 These same techniques apply equally well to all forms of adver-

 tising. But there the}- are usually quite compressed, and their 

 purpose and structure was not quite so apparent. 

 H e r e are these techniques of Intensification: 

 Your First Presentation of Your Claims 

 1. First present the product or the satisfaction it gives di- 

 rectly — bluntly — by a thorough, completely detailed description of 

 its appearance or the results it gives. For example, this rose ad: 

 MORE ROSES THAN YOU EVER SAW 

 ON ANY ROSE BUSH . . . 

 Leading Eastern Agricultural College reports: This fab-

 ulous rose variety produced 500 blooms in June . . . 1523 

 more blooms in July. . . 1616 more blooms in August. . . 

 437 more blooms in September . . . 4,076 rases all from one 

 single plant. . . 

 Can you imagine the fantastic beauty of a rosebush 

 that can easily give you MORE THAN 4,000 ROSES from 

 June to September—and then keeps on blooming heavily 

 right up into frost . . . 

 Can you imagine the fantastic thrill of walking into 

 your garden and actually picking 3 dozen, even 4 dozen 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 8 1 

 roses a day from a single plant, dav after day, week alter 

 week—and still leave gigantic clusters of bloom on each 

 single plant. 

 Colorful, fragrant roses almost as large as the most ex-

 pensive Hvbrid Teas, vet blooming bv the hundreds at one 

 single time . . . on one single bush! Cherrv-pink 3-inch roses 

 overlaid with tinges ol red that deepen in fire and bril-

 liance as the blossoms unfold—to reveal a dazzling gold 

 splash on their petals! Roses that burst into living walls of 

 blossoms that flame again and again into exquisite masses 

 of bloom in June, Julv, August, September, October, No-

 vember . . . and often stav in bloom weeks after the first 

 snows have fallen! . . . 

 This is the rose with such fantastic blooming power 

 that it will actually give vou huge clusters of 10, 12 even 

 15 flowers on a single stem . . . and produce those clusters 

 in solid masses of bloom! Clusters as large as both of your 

 outstretched hands put together . . . clusters that actuallv 

 measure up to one full foot across . . . each stem a com-

 plete floral bouquet in itself. . . that gives vou an average 

 of more than 50 NEW ROSES dav after dav, week after 

 week, for 8, 9 even 10 weeks in a row during the hot "dog 

 davs" of summer. . . Enough roses to fill everv room in 

 vour house with color and fragrance all summer long . . . 

 Enough roses to drench vour terrace with beautv, to sweep 

 around vour home and flood vour beds, vour borders, vour 

 walks, vour driveway with solid, living walls of roses all 

 summer long . . . with just a few plants! 

 And this is the rose you can have blooming in vour 

 garden now and for years to come, that will make vour 

 grounds the garden showplaee of the neighborhood, if 

 vou accept this extraordinary flower offer now! . . . 

 Or, as another example, this description of the results of a 

 Christmas flashlight projector that shows colored slides of the 

 Bible: 

 . . . You take out the amazing invention we send vou. 

 You simplv switch it on. And suddenly even/ person in the 

 room draws in his breath in excitement and admiration! 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 8 2 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 For there before vou on that living room wall—pro-

 jected four feet wide bv three feet tall—is one of the most 

 beautiful pictures you have ever seen! Before vour eves— 

 so real that you can praeticallv reach out and touch her— 

 is the Virgin Mary holding the Infant Jesus in her arms. 

 The picture actually glows with exquisite color. You can see 

 every magnificent detail . . . the animals huddled around the 

 manger . . . the tenderness in the Virgins eves . . . the smile 

 on the Infant's face. 

 It's almost as though you were actuallv there! Sud-

 denly all the wonderful tales your children have heard . . . 

 all the meaning and glorv of Christmas . . . come alive be-

 fore your children's eves! Life-sized . . . as tall as vour chil-

 dren . . . scene after scene parades before them on their 

 living room wall! They actuallv see the Angel of God an-

 nouncing the Birth to the Shepherds! Thev witness the 

 Star of Bethlehem rising over the world! Thev stand side 

 by side with the Three Wise men in silent adoration! 

 Before their very eyes, thev see Christ grow to ma-

 turity. They watch him astound the elders of the Temple 

 as a small child. They thrill to his first meeting with John 

 the Baptist. They are present at the Sermon on the Mount. 

 They witness each of the miracles—see with their own eves 

 Jesus calming the storm . . . teaching Peter to walk on the 

 water . . . raising Lazarus from the dead. 

 Can there be any more thrilling experience? Suddenly 

 every sermon thev have ever heard . . . overv book thev 

 have ever read . . . every prayer they have ever learned, 

 takes on new meaning and beauty for them. This is prob-

 ably the most thrilling hour you will ever spend with vour 

 children. They will ask you to repeat it time and time again. 

 These magnificent pictures will continue to thrill and as-

 tound and instruct them for years to come . . . 

 Or, as another example, this description of the outward ap-

 pearance of a giant flying plastic model jet: 

 . . . Yes! Just imagine the expression on vour children's 

 faces, when they walk into vour living room just one week 

 from today, and suddenly see this magnificent model air-

 plane standing in front of them on the living room table! 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C 

 83 

 Here is a gigantic, three-dimensional, all plastic model 

 airplane—resting securely on its own triple landing gear— 

 and so huge that its tail section alone stands six full rnehes 

 from the table! 

 This magnificent model airplane proudly bears the 

 official colors of Pan American Airways! Its wings and en-

 gines are a dazzling silver! Its fuselage is a gleaming white— 

 with a brilliant blue stripe stretching back twentv-one inches 

 along the entire length of the bodv! And stamped on both 

 sides of the huge rudder is the Fan American World Globe— 

 and the American flag above it. ready to identify this plane 

 anywhere she goes! 

 Both the wings and the tail section are slanted diag-

 onally back—ready to cut through the air at 600 scale miles 

 an hour! And suspended beneath the wings are the four 

 huge engines—each as long and as thick as vour child's 

 fingers—each with its own JET SOUND SIMULATOR, to 

 give your child thrill after thrill after thrill WHEN HE 

 ACTUALLY FLIES THIS BREATH-TAKING MODEL 

 HIMSELF! . . 

 Put the Claims in Action 

 2. Now that you have presented your main description, you 

 are ready to expand the image. One of the most effective ways 

 to do this is to PUT THE PRODUCT IN ACTION for your reader. 

 To show, not only how the product looks, and what benefits it 

 gives the reader, hut exactly how it does this. As one example, 

 let's continue with our model jet airplane ad: 

 No Fuel! No Danger! No Crack-Ups! Yet It Flies 600 

 Scale Miles An Hour, All Under Your Complete Control! 

 Pick this magnificent plastic model up from the table. 

 and hand it to your child. While he holds it, simply attach 

 the U-Control Line as we show vou to the left wing. Then 

 suspend the model from this control line, and begin slowlv 

 to swing it through the air. Before your astonished eyes. 

 you will see one of the most thrilling sights of vour entire 

 life! 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 8 4 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 This model is perfectly designed for high-speed flight! 

 As soon as it picks up power from the motion of vour hand, 

 it will lift up its nose, its wings will begin to cut through 

 the air, it will flash upward and streak ahead of vou! As vou 

 give it more and more line, it will turn wider and wider. 

 fly faster and faster . . . You can flv it in circles only five feet 

 wide, or you can take it outdoors and flv it in gigantic arcs 

 one hundred feet wide—the size of an entire eitv lot . . . 

 You can make this plane soar upward—stall at fantas-

 tic heights—dive toward the ground—and then pick up 

 speed and flash upward again in a breath-taking rescue! . . . 

 You can spiral this magnificent model down into a perfect 

 landing! You can fly two or more planes in formation! You 

 can have jet races! You can have an entire fleet of breath-

 taking models flown by every member of vour family—and 

 you can have them for only $1 apiece—less than ONE-

 FIFTH the price you'd pay for a plastic model of this size 

 and performance! . . . 

 Or, as another example, this product-in-action description 

 from a brochure selling a self-propelled fish lure: 

 . . . Think of it! To fuel up this amazing, live-action 

 lure, all vou do is this. Simply snap open the fuel cham-

 ber—pour in the absolutely harmless fuel—and close the 

 fuel chamber again! . . . Simply cast or lower that power-

 packed lure into fresh or salt water—and get set for the 

 fishing thrill of your life! 

 For perhaps one minute, the lure will float quietly on 

 the surface of the water. But then that water will reach the 

 fuel charge inside—the lure will seem to shudder for a sec-

 ond—and then it will spring dramatically to "life"! 

 The air around it will be filled with the buzzing sound 

 of a dying bee! Instantly, the nose of the lure will point 

 downward, and it will begin its first descent! Slowly, jerk-

 ily, like a maimed minnow, it will swim noisily down-

 ward—buzzing and humming—traveling about nine feet 

 every fifteen seconds! If no fish intercepts it, it will then 

 automatically stop its descent—slowly raise up its nose— 

 and begin its irresistible climb to the surface again! 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 85 

 And again! And again! Tirelessly—hour after hour— 

 lengthening out the reach of vour own casts! Roaming rest-

 lessly oyer eyerv foot of water beneath vou—even on a 

 slack line—e\*en when your boat is tied up—eyen when 

 you're curled up on the dock, sound asleep! . . . 

 And driving the fish around you into such a frenzy 

 with its swimming and its buzzing that they practically tear 

 the rod out of vour hands—they're so anxious to get their 

 mouths into the hook! . . . 

 Bring In the R e a d e r 

 3. Or, if vour product lends itself to this kind of treatment, 

 put your reader right smack in the middle of this product-in-action 

 story, and give him a verbal demonstration of icJiat will happen 

 to him the first day he owns that product. For example, this pas-

 sage from an ad selling a power booster for the average car: 

 . . . Picture this to yourself! Next weekend vou go 

 down to vour car—the same tired car that you've been driv-

 ing for years. You've made only one simple change to that 

 car, so easy that vour sixteen year old son could do it. But 

 now, when you turn on the ignition, a modern miracle of 

 engineering science comes to life under your hood! 

 From the very first moment, you'll see and feel the 

 difference in that engine! . . . When vou release the emer-

 gency brake, vour car will glide out of its parking space— 

 roll down the street with vour foot hardlv touching the gas 

 pedal. Every 30 or 40 seconds, you'll give that car an extra 

 shot of gas—feeling it spurt ahead—testing the new power 

 that's singing underneath vour foot! 

 We ask vou to pull up to another car at the stop light, 

 of approximately the same year and make as your own! 

 Wait until the light changes from red to green. Let the 

 other car start first. Wait till the other car gets half way 

 across the street. And then slam your foot down on the gas 

 pedal! 

 Before that other car has even crossed the street, vou 

 will have caught up with him. For one brief second, vou 

 and that other car will race fender to fender. And then vou 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 8 6 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 will flash away from him . . . you will leave him a full block 

 behind . . . you will look in your rear view mirror and see 

 the startled look of amazement on the other drivers face! . . . 

 Show H i m H o w to Test Your Claims 

 4. But there is still more room to expand the image along 

 these lines. Turn the demonstration into a test. Let your reader 

 visualize himself proving the performance of your product — gain- 

 ing its benefits immediately — in the most specific and dramatic 

 way possible. For example, in this ad, selling a new kind of spark 

 plug: 

 . . . when you get your set of SA FIRE L\"JECTORS, 

 here is all you do. If you have an automatic transmission, 

 make a note of how fast your car crawls forward when it 

 is in the drive position, with the motor idling. If vou have 

 a sports car, a racing car or boat, make a note of the RPM's 

 as indicated on the tachometer when the engine is idling. 

 If you have regular transmission, put your car in low gear 

 on a level road and notice its speed with the motor idling. 

 Next . . . screw your injectors right into the spark plug open-

 ings ... 

 Now, if you have an automatic transmission—put vour 

 car in drive and let your engine idle. If vour car stood still 

 with spark plugs, it will now move forward at from 4 to 6 

 miles an hour; that means that the amount of gas that just 

 kept your engine turning over will now carrv vou up to 6 

 miles at no cost to you. 

 If you have a racing or sports car or a boat with a 

 tachometer, your RPM's will increase up to 200 more at 

 idling and up to 300 more at high speeds. 

 If you have regular transmission, in low gear with vour 

 motor idling your car will move forward 4 to 6 miles per 

 hour faster. In other words, no matter what vou drive, here 

 is absolute proof that you can go further, faster and 

 c h e a p e r . . . 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 8 / 

 Or, as another example, this demonstration-test from an ad 

 selling a m e m o r y course, with the headline, "Give Me O n e Eve-

 ning and I'll Give vou a Push-Button Memory": 

 . . . Take this book and turn to page 39. Read eight 

 short pages—no more. And then, put down the book. Re-

 view in vour own mind the one simple secret I've shown 

 vou. And then—get readv to test your new AUTOMATIC 

 memorv! 

 What vou are going to do, in that very first evening, 

 is this. Without referring to the book, you are going to sit 

 down, and you are going to write—not five, not ten, but 

 TWENTY important facts that vou have never been able 

 to memorize before! If vou are a business man, they may 

 be customers' orders that you have received . . . if you are 

 a salesman, they may be twenty different products in your 

 line . . . if vou are a housewife, they. . . . 

 In any case, vou are simplv going to glance over that 

 list again for a few moments. You are going to perform a 

 simple mental trick on each one of these facts—that will 

 burn that fact into vour mind, permanently and automati-

 cally! And then vou are going to put that list away . . . 

 And the next morning, vou are going to amaze your 

 friends and family! When vou go down to business, you 

 will attend to everyone of those orders—automatically— 

 without referring to vour memo pad!. . . . 

 Yes! And you'll amaze vour friends by remembering 

 every product in vour line—backwards and forwards—in 

 the exact order that vou memorized them! You'll keep every7 

 single appointment on time—because one appointment will 

 automatically flash into vour mind after another—at the 

 precise moment vou need them—exactly as though you 

 pushed a mental button! 

 All this—in a single evening!. . . . 

 Stretch Out Your Benefits in Time 

 5. The n u m b e r of variations, of fresh, startling viewpoints is 

 endless. H e r e is another departure from the product-in-action 

 theme: showing the product at work, not for just an hour or a 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 88 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 day, but over a span of weeks and months. H e r e vou extend vour 

 reader's vision further and further into time—showing him a con-

 tinuous flow of benefits. This passage is taken from an ad for an 

 English plant food: 

 . . . First, the amazing English pellets give vour plants 

 a tremendous new burst of growth! New plants and old— 

 they send out dozens of hidden shoots and buds! Some of 

 your plants may actually DOUBLE in height and breadth 

 the verv first month! 

 But this is just the beginning! Within one or two short 

 weeks—without your even touching vour plant—this amaz-

 ing pellet AUTOMATICALLY begins the second stage of 

 its work! It automatically sends out a second wonder-working 

 nutrient—that enters into even cell of vour plants' bod-

 ies—that fills those cells with health and strength and stur-

 diness . . . Great, tall stems stand up with militarv precision! 

 Giant buds begin to swell with vigor and vitalitv! Even tired 

 old shrubs and trees—that you had almost given up for 

 lost—begin to straighten out—fatten up—send out the voung 

 green growth that you had never hoped to see again! 

 And then, the most remarkable part of all! Just as 

 these fantastically beautiful plants have reached their full, 

 glorious height and strength—at that moment these tinv 

 English pellets automatically liberate still a third wonder-

 working ingredient!. . . . 

 And when that third precious ingredient reaches those 

 buds—then that verv morning vou will open the door to 

 vour house—AND YOU WILL BE BLINDED BY THE 

 EXPLOSION OF COLOR THAT GREETS YOU IN 

 YOUR GARDEN! . . . You will see rose bushes weighted 

 down with masses of blossoms, of a richness and perfume 

 and color you have never imagined before! You will see 

 dahlias and asters and gladiolas so massive, so exquisite, so 

 breath-takingly beautiful that you can hardlv believe that 

 they are the same plants that you put in the ground! And 

 when your neighbors begin to pour into your vard—when 

 you watch them bend and touch these flowers to see if 

 they are real—THEN YOU WILL KNOW A FEELING 

 OF GARDEN ACCOMPLISHMENT AND PRIDE THAT 

 YOU NEVER DREAMED OF BEFORE!. . . . 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 89 

 Bring In an Audience 

 6. At the end of this passage, other actors besides the reader 

 are brought into the scene. Each one of them — each group of 

 them — provides a fresh new perspective through which your 

 reader can view the product. Seen through their eyes — experi- 

 enced through their actions and reactions — the product perfor- 

 mances become new, vivid and completely different again. 

 These new participants mav be celebrities, who relate their 

 experiences through the testimonial. This technique is too famil-

 iar to warrant an example here. Or they may be average men 

 and women, whom the reader easily identifies with, whose ex-

 periences are related through narration or the case history. Prob-

 ably the most famous example of a narration is the "They Laughed 

 W h e n I Sat Down at the Piano" ad quoted in the first section of 

 this book. H e r e , as an example of the case-history approach, we 

 use a passage from a reducing ad: 

 . . . And then, if vou were like the men and women 

 whose fantastic case histories were reported by leading med-

 ical journals, perhaps vou went to vour doctor and asked 

 him for AN EASY WAY OUT—WITHOUT TORTURE— 

 AND WITHOUT SLIDING BACK! . . . 

 These doctors had the answer in a tinv grev pill—and 

 a common-sense plan . . . 

 Thev instructed dozens of patients to test this mir-

 acle plan in their own homes, under these doctors' su-

 pervision. These men and women did NOT give up the 

 foods they loved—thev simply and naturally cut down on 

 them! 

 Thev were not given anv starvation diets . . . thev re-

 ported, in case after case, that thev felt more pep. more 

 energy, more youth and vitality than thev had known for 

 years! 

 And then, dav bv day, faster and easier and safer than 

 they had ever known before, the uglv excess fat around 

 their bodies melted away! While thev were eating three 

 delicious meals a dav, thev were shedding as much as five 

 pounds a week! While thev were feasting on mouth-water-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 9 0 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 ing steaks, thick juicy slices of roast beef, potatoes, butter 

 and bread—they were losing inch after inch after inch from 

 around their waistlines, their thighs, their hips. Clothes that 

 they had discarded years before began to come out of the 

 closets and attics. Men and women both—they beam to 

 notice a new young look to their chins and faces that thev'd 

 thought thev'd lost forever. 

 And when the plan was over . . . these men and women 

 had lost as much as 17 and 25 and even 34 pounds . . . thev 

 had turned back their weight clock 5. 10 and even 15 

 years . . . And their trim, slim figures were just beginning. . . . 

 Show Experts Approving 

 7. But not only celebrities and ordinary people can be used 

 to reaffirm the product benefits. Experts in the fcld — profession- 

 als — the sophisticated, the discriminating, the blase can be called 

 on to register their reactions. There is nothing so astounding as 

 the astonishment of experts. H e r e the elements of surprise, com-

 petition and discovery all combine to sharpen the image even 

 more. This example is taken from the rose ad mentioned above: 

 . . . Just picture the scene as these college horticul-

 turists began this amazing flowering test of roses. For here 

 gathered in a test field were all the highh -praised queens 

 of rosedom . . . floribundas, hybrid teas, polvanthas, 

 patented roses and rose blends that today sell lor as high 

 as $3.75 for a single plant. Row upon row of roses . . . prize-

 winners in international competition . . . the best the world 

 has to offer. . . AND THEN, NEARLY WILD STARTED 

 TO BLOOM! 

 Just picture the astonishment on these experts' faces 

 when in the first month alone, Nearly Wild produced over 

 15 times more blossoms than the average of all other roses 

 combined; how in July alone it produces an average of 50 

 new roses a day, more than 7 times as many blossoms as 

 the second leading rose! How in August it produced 21 

 times more roses than its nearest competitor; and then 

 went on. . . . 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 91 

 Is it anv wonder that a famous rose expert upon view-

 ing the results of this test, exclaimed: "Why, it's like hav-

 ing a complete rose garden of 20 plants—all on a single 

 bush!" Or whv another rose expert, shaking his head in dis-

 belief, stated: "If we ever released these flowering figures 

 to the public, they'd never believe it. And if they did be-

 lieve it, we couldn't produce Nearly Wild rose plants to fill 

 the demand in the next 25 vears!". . . . 

 Compare, Contrast, Prove Superiority 

 8. Each new approach suggests others. The competition can 

 be carried into contrast. The disadvantages of the old product or 

 service can he laid side by side with the advantages of the new — 

 throwing these advantages into sharp relief. Here, as one ex-

 ample, is a brief, three-sentence passage from a book-club radio 

 commercial that establishes the difference between random buy-

 ing and book-club savings indelibly on the listener's mind: 

 . . . Yes! While vour friends were paying $3.95 for their 

 copies of Frank Yerbv's run-away best seller, The Golden 

 Hawk, Dollar Book Club members were getting the same 

 exact book for only 99c • While your friends were paying 

 $4.95 for John O'Hara's flaming new thriller, A Rage to 

 Live, Dollar Book Club members were getting the same 

 exact book for only 99c1. And while your friends were pay-

 ing $5.95 for Thomas B. Costain's towering new triumph. 

 High Toicers, Dollar Book Club members were enjoying 

 exactly the same book—for only 990! • • • 

 Or, as another example, here is a passage from a direct mail 

 piece selling a Fuel Reclaimer—a device for the engine of your 

 car that feeds escaping crankcase gases back into your carburetor: 

 . . . This device uses the suction-power of your own 

 motor to scoop up that smoke. And then—in one of the most 

 brilliant ideas in engineering history—it destroys that smoke 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 9 2 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 by feeding it back into your engine, where it is burned up 

 again as a continuous, extra flow of fuel! 

 Think of it! Instead of polluted oil, polluted engine, 

 polluted air—vou get a constant stream of extra gasoline 

 flowing into your engine, almost as though vou had a free, 

 second gas tank connected to vour car! 

 Instead of one breakdown after another, one more 

 repair bill after another, each more expensive than before 

 you get young-car power, young-car economy, voung-car 

 resistance to repair bills, because the deadlv sludge-causers, 

 acid-causers, filth-causers that used to ruin vour car, are 

 now being burned up as fuel in vour engine!. . , . 

 Picture the Black Side, Too 

 9. And there's no need to neglect the Heaven-Or-Hell ap- 

 proach. Here the negative aspect to every promise—the problem 

 that you are liberating your prospect from forever—is painted in 

 all its full black color. You irritate the wound, and then you apply 

 the salve that heals it. 

 Thus you derive two currents of motivation—repulsion away 

 from the former problem or inadequate product, and the attrac-

 tion generated by your own product's contrasting solutions. 

 There are several forms in which vou can present this before-

 and-after picture. You can do it through narration or the testi-

 monial. You can do it by using the "pitch" technique of product 

 ridicule. Or you can simply present straight description of the 

 old product or problem, with all its detailed drawbacks, and then 

 follow it directly with a similar description of vour new solution 

 in a perfectly parallel style, item by item. Here, as an example, 

 is a passage from an ad selling a new kind of spark plug: 

 . . . Someday, if you ever have a spare moment, lift 

 one of the old-fashioned spark plugs out of vour car! Look 

 at the bottom of that plug. In 10 seconds, vou'II learn more 

 about gas waste than any book could teach vou in a vear! 

 If that plug has been in your car three thousand miles 

 or more, then what you'll see on the bottom of that plug 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 93 

 is FILTH! The Firing Point of that plug—the most im-

 portant single point in vour car—will be choked, strangled 

 and fouled with BLACK, FILTHY CARBON! Carbon that 

 robs vour car of as much as 20 vital horsepower everytime 

 vour engine fires! 

 Now, wipe that filth awav and look at the Firing Point 

 itself. This is the POWER POINT of your car . . . the pin-

 head of electricitv that turns raw gas into 300 horsepower 

 of driving energy! And what is the condition of that point? 

 CORRODED—PITTED—SCARRED—-AND WORN! 

 Hardlv able to deliver half the spark that it should! Wast-

 ing gas—wasting monev evervtime vou put vour foot down 

 on the gas pedal! 

 Yes! You pay $2,000—83.000—84.000 for your car. And' 

 a single 99c part robs vou of the real power and enjov-

 ment of that car. 

 AT LAST! A PLUG SO SMART THAT IT THINKS"! 

 Now look at the new plug—the re\ olutionarv Power 

 Flash plug that I'll send vou—for exactlv the same price 

 that you're paving today. 

 Here is a plug that has not onlv ONE firing point— 

 but hundreds of potential firing points! That actuallv ELIM-

 INATES THAT DEADLY CARBON—burns it up—throws 

 it awav—KEEPS ITSELF SPARKLING CLEAN ON 

 EVERY SINGLE STROKE! The full, blazing horsepower 

 that was there when vour car was brand-new, is still there 

 as much as 30.000 miles later. 

 But that's just the beginning! This plug actually gives 

 vou the full firing power vou need for everv driving con-

 dition—smooth, dependable power for city stop-and-go 

 driving—effortless horsepower for the parkway—blazing re-

 serve power for super speeds. . . . 

 And that's still just the beginning! Best of all. this is 

 one of the toughest, strongest, longest-lasting plugs ever 

 made. You could actuallv pound it against a concrete wall 

 with a hammer without even denting it—and this amazing 

 plug would still fire clean and hot with 30,000 miles! Yes! 

 These fantastic plugs give vou such consistent, long-lasting 

 service that we can afford to make one of the most amaz-

 ing guarantees vou have ever heard. . . . 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 94 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 Show H o w Easy It Is to Get These Benefits 

 10. To repeat again, the variations are limitless. At everv 

 point that your product touches the life of vour prospect price, 

 availability, ease of use, durability, portability replacement and 

 maintenance, even unwrapping the carton it comes in—it fur-

 nishes you with another fresh perspective in which to reiterate 

 and reemphasize its benefits. H e r e is just one example— stress- 

 ing the ease of application, and contrasting it with the tremen- 

 dous benefits that that application gives you: 

 . . . One week from today, vou are going down to your 

 car. You are going to lift up its hood—vou are going to take 

 the black, shining can we send you—and vou are going to 

 simply pour its contents into the oil filler pipe of vour car! 

 that's all the work you will do! That's all the skill vou 

 need! And yet in that 30 seconds work, vou will improve 

 that cars performance in eight different wavs! 

 With just 30 seconds work, you will strengthen the 

 engine of that car so greatly that you will get 2 to 3 to 5 

 miles more per gallon from every gallon vou buv. . . 

 With just 30 seconds work, you will lubricate that en-

 gine so thoroughly that you will drive up to 5.000 full miles 

 without even looking at vour oil. . . 

 And, with just 30 seconds work, you will protect that 

 engine so completely that you will add up to four years to 

 its power and life! . . . You will push off the ring and pis-

 ton jobs that might cost you $75 each—for vears!. 

 Use Metaphor, Analogy, Imagination 

 11. Nor do you have to be satisfied merely with the statement 

 of rate fact. There are infinite opportunities for the use of imag- 

 ination to present those facts in more dramatic form, outside of 

 the rigidly realistic approach. Some of the more famous examples 

 are the Alexander Hamilton ad of the Twenties, "The Glory of 

 the Upward Path." Or the Big Ben alarm clock series, "First he 

 whispers, then he shouts." Or this passage from perhaps the most 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 FIRST TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: INTENSIFICATION' 95 

 long-lived ad of them all, the Shenvin Cody English Course, in 

 which a manual of instruction is personified and given actual 

 life: 

 The basic principle of Mr. Cody's new method is 

 habit-forming. Anyone can learn to write and speak cor-

 rectly bv constantly using the correct forms. But how is 

 one to know in each case which is correct? Mr. Cod}' solves 

 this problem in a simple, unique, sensible way. 

 100% Self-Correcting Device. 

 Suppose he himself were standing forever at your 

 elbow. Every time you mispronounced or misspelled a word, 

 every time you violated correct grammatical usage, every 

 time vou used the wrong word to express what you meant, 

 suppose vou could hear him whisper. "That is wrong, it 

 should be thus and so." In a short time you would habit-

 ually use the correct form and the right words in speaking 

 and writing. 

 If vou continued to make the same mistakes over and 

 over again, each time patiently he would tell you what was 

 right. He would, as it were, be an everlasting mentor be-

 side vou—a mentor who would not laugh at you, but who 

 would, on the contrary, support and help you. This 100% 

 Self-Correcting Device does exactly this thing. It is Mr. 

 Cody's silent voice behind you, reach' to speak out when-

 ever vou commit an error. It finds your mistakes and con-

 centrates on them. You do not need to study anything you 

 alreadv know. There are no rules to memorize. . . . 

 Before You're D o n e , Summarize 

 12. To repeat again, there is an infinite n u m b e r oi new ap-

 proaches. No list of them can ever be complete, because new 

 applications, new perspectives, new viewpoints are being discov-

 ered every day. 

 Which of them, and how many of them you will use in a 

 single ad, is a matter of timing and balance as you begin to put 

 your ad together. As long as each additional fresh perspective con- 

 tinues to huild the dominant desire in your prospect's mind, use it. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 9 6 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 But if the additional perspective is not different or dramatic enough 

 to renew your prospect's interest in your claims, then leave it out. 

 To a large degree, this is a matter of sensitivity and originality on 

 your part. The sensitivity comes from intuition and experience; the 

 originality often comes from nothing more than hard work. And 

 perhaps the best way to measure the balance between the two— 

 that critical turning point where reinforcement becomes mere rep-

 etition—is to re-read your ad, some davs after vou have first writ-

 ten it. 

 T h e r e are, however, two conventional summary devices 

 which are almost always used, and which must be mentioned 

 here. 

 The first of these is the "catalog." This is a brief condensed 

 listing of all the product's performances, benefits, and/or applica- 

 tions, one after the other, without description, dramatization or 

 elaboration. Each of the benefits or perspectives which might 

 have been given three or four paragraphs at the beginning of 

 your ad, is here summed up in a single line. 

 There are two types of catalogs. Those that expand desire 

 horizontally, among ever-enlargening groups of applications or 

 prospects. And those that expand desire vertically bv deepening 

 or magnifying that desire. 

 H e r e is an example of the first type of catalog—used to list 

 all the applications of a blow torch kit that might conceivably sell 

 it to a home owner: 

 ALL IN ONE! 

 Blow-Torch, Paint-Remover, Soldering Iron! 

 Professional-hpe Propane Torch also doubles as fast, 

 safe Paint Remover and precision Soldering Iron! Does 101 

 jobs around the house, including— 

 Laving tile; removing paint or putt}'; thawing frozen 

 pipes; sweating copper tubing; soldering gutters; repairing 

 electrical work; starting charcoal fires and fireplaces: burn-

 ing weeds, parasites and damp leaves; thawing frozen locks; 

 light brazing; loosening rusty bolts; car body and fender 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 9 7 

 repairs; soldering aluminum, silver and jewelry and other 

 hobbies, and manv, manv more. . . . 

 It is quite obvious, of course, that this catalog device uses 

 the "shotgun approach." Up to this point, vour ad has taken a 

 single dominant desire, and developed that single desire to the 

 point of absolute maximum intensity. This willingness to gamble 

 on being precisely right—on having chosen the one most pow-

 erful appeal—gives your ad the impact of a high-velocity rifle. 

 But it also demands the accuracy of an expert marksman. 

 Now—through this multi-appeal catalog listing—vou have a 

 last-minute chance to hedge. Now vou "shotgun" with every wide-

 angled appeal, benefit and application in the book. Before vou 

 were heightening a single desire, bv picturing the satisfaction of 

 that desire in a dozen different settings. 

 Now you are building an effect of a different kind—one of 

 sheer magnitude, of number, of infinite possibilities—in the hope 

 that any one of them, or the combination of all of them working 

 together, mav provide the extra added push that closes the sale. 

 This catalog technique was born in mail order book selling, 

 and here it has its widest application. This next example is a con-

 tinuation of the m e m o r y book ad we quoted above: 

 . . . But this is just the beginning of the "miracles" vou 

 can perform with vour memory. This secret is just one of 

 the over 50 MEMORY INTENSIFIERS contained in this 

 b o o k . . . 

 For instance—REMEMBERING NAMES AND 

 FACES! . . . How would vou like to walk into a room of 

 twenty new people—meet each one of them onlv once— 

 and then remember their names, automatically, for as long 

 as vou live . . . 

 Think of the advantage in business, when vou can call 

 every customer bv his first name, and then ask for his wife 

 and children, instantly, by their first names! Think of the 

 impression you'll make when you ask him about the state 

 of his business, his hobbies, when vou repeat, almost word 

 for word, the last conversation vou had with him. Think of 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 98 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 becoming the celebrity at your club—as the member who 

 "knows everyone"—who can be depended on to avoid mis-

 takes, to win new friends for the organization, to get things 

 done! 

 But this is still just the beginning! This book teaches 

 you to remember exactly what you hear and read! . . . It 

 teaches you how to memorize a speech or a sales presen-

 tation. in minutes! It teaches vou how to remember every 

 card played when you relax at night! . . . It shows vou how 

 to improve the depth and force and power of vour mind! 

 How to double your vocabulary—learn dozens of wavs to 

 burn new words into your memory—learn their meanings 

 without looking them up—repeat entire phrases, sentences, 

 paragraphs from the great writers! You'll be able to learn 

 a foreign language in a few short weeks—at least three to 

 four times as quickly and easily as vou could without this 

 system! You'll be able to hear a joke, storv or anecdote onlv 

 once, and then repeat it in the same hilarious wav! 

 Yes! And most important of all, this book will show 

 you how to professionally organize vour mind—do what vou 

 have to do in half the time! You'll remember dates, ad-

 dresses, appointments—automatically! You'll carry dozens 

 of telephone numbers in the file-cabinet of \our mind! . . . 

 Let me send you this book, and prove these facts to vou 

 in one short evening, or it doesn't cost vou a penny! . . . 

 T h e second use for this catalog technique is to pile desire 

 upon desire, rather than application upon application. It is again 

 a building of magnitude, of n u m b e r — b u t this time in summary 

 of all the perspectives that have gone before. This example is taken 

 from the Fish Lure ad quoted above: 

 . . . Here's What This Amazing, Self-Propelled Fish 

 Lure Does For You! 

 First of all, this Self-Propelled Fish Lure frees vou 

 forever from the filthy task of digging for worms and 

 crawlers, catching frogs, or paying 500 to $1 for a bucket 

 of minnows that die on you before vou can even get them 

 in the boat! It frees you forever from paving $3, 84 or even 

 85 for a fancy, "dead-as-a-duck" lure that onlv works when 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 99 

 vou tow it—that could never actually swim under its own 

 power behin

 vou

 d 

 ! 

 It frees vou forever from long, torturous hours of care-

 ful work, tving your own flies and lures, because you just 

 couldn't buy anything, anywhere, that would reach out be-

 ond vour farthest casts, and pull in the fish for you! 

 v 

 It means that tomorrow . . . you can go out in fresh or 

 s 

 jalt water . . . and haul in the -eye-poppers with a lure that 

 actuallv drives them into a frenzy with its crippled min-

 now action and its dying bee sound! It means that you can 

 weigh down vour boat with bigmouthed bass, small mouthed 

 bass, cat-fish, dog-fish . . . wherever you drop a line! 

 It means that you can fish better—novice or p r o -

 sound asleep at the bottom of your boat—than most fish-

 ermen sweating and casting till their arms ache with ordi-

 nary, "dead-as-a-duck" lures! 

 And it means that you'll have the time of your life— 

 not only amazing your friends and family with the hauls 

 vou drag home behind you—but just watching your fish-

 erman friends' faces, the first time they see this incredible 

 SELF-PROPELLED FISH LURE in action! Their eves 

 will almost pop out of their heads!. . . . 

 Put Your Guarantee to Work 

 13. And finally, as you close the sale, as you ask the prospect 

 for action, as you state the terms of your guarantee, you can turn 

 that guarantee into the climax of your ad—the last brief sum- 

 mary of your product's performances—reinforced at every step 

 by the positive reassertion of that guarantee. H e r e is an example 

 from the spark plug ad quoted above: 

 . . . Guaranteed For Two Full Years! 

 Yes! You try these amazing POWER FLASH SPARK 

 PLUGS for two full years entirely at our risk! First, test 

 them for one full month for surging power, thrilling new 

 driving performance, breath-taking gas-savings alone! D 

 ur-

 ing that very first month alone 

 1. These plugs must give you up to 9 miles more per 

 gallon instantly—or your full purchase price back! 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 100 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 2. These plugs must give vou up to 31 more horse-

 power instantly—or your full purchase price back! 

 3. As an extra added assurance—these plugs must con-

 tinue to give vou this power, performance and gas savings 

 FOR TWO FULL YEARS —or we will send vou a brand-

 new set ABSOLUTELY FREE! . . . 

 Or, as an even better example of the full impact vou can 

 gain by using your guarantee as a summarv device, here is the 

 guarantee passage from the plant food ad quoted above: 

 . . . These Magic English Pellets . . . cost onlv S2.98 for 

 a package of 144 pellets . . . Since onlv one or two pellets 

 are required to treat the average plant, this is an invest-

 ment of only a few pennies a plant for the most astound-

 ing beautv vou have ever seen! 

 And these results are completelv guaranteed! Here is 

 what we ask you to do, when vou receive vour Magic Pel-

 lets next week— 

 USE THEM TO CREATE SUPER-FLOYYERS! Place 

 one tiny pellet besides each of your hvdrangeas. zinneas . . . 

 any kind of flower that you want super-blooms! And if vou 

 don't see fantastic new growth within a few short weeks . . . 

 ii you don't watch with amazement while handfuls of new 

 blossoms burst forth from these old plants—then simplv re-

 turn the emptv package for everv cent of vour monev back! 

 USE THEM TO CREATE SUPER-VEGETABLES! 

 And pick huge, breath-taking beauties within a few short 

 weeks . . . thrill your family with the sweetest, juiciest, ten-

 derest vegetables you've ever known—or everv cent of vour 

 money back! 

 YES! USE THEM IN YOUR ENTIRE GARDEN! 

 Use them on hard-luck plants where vou've almost given 

 up hope! Use them on the hardest-to-grow house plants 

 that you know! Yes, even use them in sand, and absolutely 

 astound your friends! And if you don't agree that this British 

 invention is a true gardening miracle . . . if vour garden isn't 

 the showplace of your neighborhood at the end of one short 

 month—then simply return the empty package—for even-

 cent of vour money back!. . . . 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 1 0 1 

 At the end of vour ad as well as at its beginning— Intensifi- 

 cation — building desire by presenting continually new images of 

 its satisfaction through your product. The first of the Processes 

 of Persuasion. 

 How to Apply These Principles of 

 Intensification to the Campaign 

 As mentioned at the beginning of this chapter, we have used 

 predominantly mail order examples to illustrate the mechanism 

 of Intensification. We have done this for two reasons. First, be-

 cause mail order customarilv uses long copv and hyperbole; and 

 it is through the extremes ol this long copv and these superla-

 tives that we can see these techniques working most clearly. 

 Secondly, we have used mail order for these examples be-

 cause mail order says all it has to sav about a product in a single 

 ad. There are no mail order "campaigns," in the sense of a se-

 ries of different-though-related advertisements, appearing one 

 after the other, and based on a common theme. Mail order com-

 presses such a campaign into a single ad. It savs all it can, every-

 thing it can think of, in this one ad (which is often laboriously 

 fitted together out of a series of preliminary ads, each of which 

 contributes some element to the finished form). And then, when 

 it has proven itself successful, it is frozen—even to the point of 

 typography—and run until it has exhausted its potential. 

 Thus, mail order as a rule contains the greatest number of 

 these Intensification devices in a single ad; and bv studying these 

 mail order ads we can see them working against each other, com-

 plementing each other, reinforcing each other, strengthening the 

 overall effect as paragraph is piled on paragraph. 

 But in national advertising, the rules change. While mail 

 order is a series of introductions of new products, the average 

 life of which is less than two years, national advertising is con-

 cerned with products whose life span is far greater, often ap-

 proaching the entire life span of advertising itself. And while the 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 WZ F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E OF B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 mail order advertisement runs once, and then is not repeated for 

 three to six months, national advertising must keep its product 

 image constantly in front of its public, and therefore must run 

 far more frequently. 

 Thus, national advertising, by its frequent insertions, soon 

 loses its immediate novelty. The creative problem in national ad-

 vertising thus changes from finding the theme for a particular ad-

 vertisement to finding the theme for a series of advertisements. 

 And the problem of Intensification shifts from building desire 

 throughout the advertisement to building desire throughout the 

 series. And an entirely new problem of balance emerges— that 

 of keeping continuity throughout the series, hy maintaining the 

 dominant image sharp enough and identifiable enough to utilize 

 the desire generated hy past advertisements, and at the same time 

 varying that image sufficiently to induce the prospect to read it 

 again, and therefore reinforce and sharpen that desire. 

 Assuming that you have found your dominant image, vour 

 creative problem now becomes two-fold. First, to compress that 

 image into a single statement or picture, so powerful that it will 

 sell the product the very first time it is used, and so true to the 

 heart of your market that it will continue to sell that product, 

 even when it is used over and over again. 

 It is important to realize that—as the campaign develops— 

 this dominant image or idea cannot remain as the headline. To 

 present the same basic headline (or lead picture) time after time 

 to the same audience would soon make the campaign unreadable 

 This leads us to your second creative problem. To present a 

 series of variations or perspectives of that central image—each 

 emerging from your dominant idea, but each so different from 

 the rest that they impel your prospect to read through them, and 

 so fresh that they make that dominant idea seem new again. 

 Thus you have your Central Campaign Idea, and its contin-

 uous restatement in a series of fresh disguises 

 There are as many different ways to use this basic technique 

 of campaign construction as there are advertising styles. They 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 103 

 range from the most blatant and obvious to the most subtle. To 

 start at the top, in a brief resume of examples, consider the 

 superbly-effective Colgate campaign of the late 1950s. Here the 

 centra] idea was openly stated, and precisely repeated, during 

 every advertisement: 

 "Gardol—the Invisible Shield that Protects Your Teeth." 

 The variations consisted of a scries of opening analogies. 

 Using television as the most sharplv-deflned example, an invisi-

 ble shield was shown protecting the announcer against baseballs, 

 footballs, etc.—against which thev would simply bounce off. The 

 wording of the commercials was ritualistic. Once the initial demon-

 stration was over, there was no variation in the sentences that 

 followed: 

 "Just as this invisible shield (the announcer raps the 

 shield with his knuckles) protects me against this baseball, 

 so the invisible shield in Colgate toothpaste protects your 

 teeth against decay." 

 Here the variations are confined to the opening demon-

 stration in the first ten seconds of the commercial. These are 

 designed to startle the viewer (the ball being thrown directly at 

 him from within the television set) and this emotional reaction 

 is carried over to reinforce the rigidlv repeated remainder of the 

 commercial. Thus vou have a quick and startling emotional in-

 volvement, welded onto a precise selling message. 

 Equallv as powerful is the technique of repeating the exact 

 verbal image throughout a series of advertisements, while vary-

 ing and freshening the emotional appeal through a spectrum ol 

 constantly changing main illustrations. Thus the dominant image 

 is retained intact—continuity is maintained—but there is no feel-

 ing of over-familiarity or boredom. This technique might be named 

 "Rule and Example." Two of its most effective uses recently have 

 been in the hair styling field. First with Toni, where the precisely-

 repeated verbal image was: 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 0 4 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 "WHICH TWIN HAS THE TONI—and which has 

 the $15 permanent?" 

 Above this unvarying headline was a continuouslv-changing 

 stream of pretty girls—each new picture making the question new 

 again, and requiring an interplay of examination between the pic-

 ture and the copy to discover the answer. 

 The same technique was used, some vears later, bv Clairol 

 to sell their hair tint. Here the Rule was expressed in the preeiselv-

 repeated headline: 

 "DOES SHE OR DOESN'T SHE0 

 "Hair-coloring so natural only her hairdresser knows 

 for sure." 

 Here again, this headline was re-invigorated bv a series of 

 main illustrations, of attractive young women, in common but 

 glamorized every-day activities, enjoying their lives. Here again. 

 the Examples not only proved the Rule, but renewed it. 

 At the other extreme, however, the dominant image mav not 

 even appear in the advertisements themselves, but mav merelv 

 be the underlying theme for the campaign as a whole. Here the 

 continuity is retained—not by a precisely-repeated slogan or state-

 ment—but by a single, rigidly-maintained focal point. This focal 

 point may be a dominant product appeal—such as the Cadillac 

 quality7, which is symbolized in every Cadillac advertisement in 

 the identification background photography, in the typography, in 

 the copy style, in the fashions and jewelry that are chosen to ap-

 pear with the car, and the credit lines that are given to them— 

 even to the highly-stylized pen-and-ink drawings that are used 

 when the campaign shifts to newspapers. 

 Or, if it so merits, the focal point may be simply the prod-

 uct itself. In such a campaign, each succeeding advertisement 

 reveals another fact about the product. Each is completely differ-

 ent; no single phrase or slogan is repeated twice. Here trie varia-

 tions comprise the entire verbal content of the advertisements. But 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 1 0 5 

 their subject-matter, and the illustrations, are alwavs the same— 

 the product. 

 Perhaps the best example of this technique is the magnifi-

 cent Volkswagen magazine campaign. Here the advertisements 

 are reduced to severe simplicity. There is no background identi-

 fication whatsoever. Different perspectives of the product are 

 shown as close-up as possible (except in the "Think Small" ad-

 vertisement) against an absolutely bare background. 

 Against this rigid focus on the car itself, to the exclusion of 

 every other visual element, the series of copv messages presents 

 a complete exploration of even facet of the car's performance, 

 utility, economy, durability service facilities and what-have-vou. 

 Any single advertisement is sufficient to interest a prospective 

 buyer. Together, especially when concentrated in the same media 

 and reaching the same audience week after week, the series builds 

 an overwhelming impression of novelty and value—the theme of 

 an Honest Car. Here, as examples, are only a few of the dozens 

 of different headlines: 

 "THINK SMALL." 

 (The first in the series, discussing the merits of compactness 

 as an asset.) 

 "Lemon." 

 (Showing what appears to be a perfectly good car, and 

 discussing the microscopic, almost unnoticeable flaw in it that dis-

 qualified it.) 

 "Our new model." 

 (A car that shows no difference, but has dozens of essential 

 engineering changes inside the car, where thev won't make pres-

 ent models obsolete.) 

 "Why you should open the icindoio before you close the door 

 of a Volkswagen." 

 (Discussing the fact that the car is airtight, and the quality 

 that this fact symbolizes.) 

 "Our number one salesman." 

 (The serviceman, of course, hpifying the quality of care 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 0 6 F I R S T T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I N T E N S I F I C A T I O N 

 the VW owner gets, and combatting the conception that for-

 eign cars give sparse service.) 

 And so on. A series of building-block advertisements, mak-

 ing no attempt to tell the complete storv in themselves, relying 

 on their ability to grasp the prospective buver and carrv him 

 through a procession of short, sharply focussed sales stories that 

 combine to give an informed desire of tremendous depth. 

 Notice, incidentally, that each of these headlines fulfills the 

 requirements necessary to place it at the top of an ad. Each of 

 them reaches out and touches the prospect at the point of his 

 dominant desire (to get more value for his car monev). Each ex-

 presses the common theme of the campaign (this is an honest 

 car). And each moves the prospect into the body copy—it gets 

 him to read the complete, though brief, selling message (The first 

 second, third and fifth headline do this through presenting the 

 reader with an apparent contradiction—in the first case, with his 

 accepted notion of "thinking big," and in the remaining adver-

 tisements, between the message of the headline and the content 

 of the photograph above it—thus compelling the reader to go 

 through the body copy to resolve the contradiction. The fourth 

 does it In- promising the reader information explaining an un-

 usual and provocative request). 

 Notice also that to accomplish this noveltv-within-eontinuitv, 

 and to grasp the attention of the prospect oxer a series of ad-

 vertisements, and to move him into the bodv copy where he can 

 be sold more thoroughly, each of these headlines takes the "Cre-

 ative Gamble." The product, its trademark, or its performance is 

 not mentioned in the headline. The copy writer is taking the po- 

 sition that he can only sell adequately with the number of words 

 allowed him by the body copy. Therefore he is willing to risk his 

 headline in grasping the attention of his prospect and impelling 

 him to read on, into the sales message itself, presented in con-

 vincing detail below. If he fails in his gamble, he has wasted his 

 page. If he succeeds, he has doubled and tripled the effective-

 ness of his ad. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 8 

 THE SECOND TECHNIQUE 

 OF BREAKTHROUGH 

 COPY: IDENTIFICATION 

 How to Build a Saleable Personality Into Your Product 

 The desires, wants, needs and 

 cravings of mankind that we have just discussed are, above all, 

 obvious. The hungry man feels the contractions in his stomach: 

 the sick man feels his pain. The woman who is overweight feels 

 her embarrassment, her discomfort, her shame. The desire for 

 satisfaction, or for relief, displays itself openly. It announces both 

 its wants and its needs. It responds whole-heartedly and imme-

 diately to mechanisms that achieve its aims. 

 Therefore, the recognition and magnification of this desire is 

 the first and most obvious task of copy writing. All the principles 

 and techniques described in the last chapter were practiced to 

 perfection by the patent-medicine copy writers of the 1890's. Be-

 fore the First World War, Claude Hopkins had lifted them out of 

 patent-medicine and established them in every category of gen-

 eral advertising. Until 1954, they literally dominated advertising. 

 107 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 0 8 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 But there is another kind of desire that exists in the human 

 mind—far more subtle, partly unconscious, longing not for satis-

 faction, but for expression. This second kind of desire is so differ-

 ent from the first, and operates under such different rules, that 

 it can justly be described as a second dimension of the human 

 mind. It ma}- be titled the Longing for Identification. Its rise to 

 prominence as a buying motive marks the great revolution in 

 merchandising of our time. Its utilization in copy writing—as an 

 adjunct to desire-building—constitutes our second Mechanism of 

 Persuasion . . . that of building the proper Identification into vour 

 product. 

 A Personal Note 

 Let me just inject a personal note here on the names I have 

 given these Techniques—or processes—I believe you should use 

 to cumulatively strengthen your copy. As I mention in the In-

 troduction, I have never heard, or read, a discussion of mam- of 

 these techniques before. Therefore, they are not part of the com-

 mon advertising terminology, and in case after case actually have 

 no names. 

 ^ Because of this fact, I've had to invent names for them. Some 

 of these names convey their meaning at first glance, such as In- 

 tensification. Other names I've put together out of two or more 

 ordinary words, such as Gradaalization, to try to convey an idea 

 that has purposely been left ambiguous when you first encounter 

 it. And in still other cases, such as the Identification technique 

 discussed in this chapter, I've used terms you' already know and 

 stretched their meaning. 

 Identification here, for example, means more than the cus-

 tomer's process of identifying with a product personalitv, or even 

 with a group of prestige users of that product. Here, in this new 

 context I have given it, it means at the same time the active 

 process by which the copy writer capitalizes on this need for 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 109 

 identification by building its realization through his copv into his 

 product. 

 The stress is always, in all these techniques, on the word ac- 

 tive. These are the activities vou must accomplish . . . the pro-

 cesses vou must utilize . . . the psychological effects vou must 

 achieve to give your copy the maximum possible strength. It is 

 this active, deliberate, ongoing process—this building of effects— 

 that I have tried to convey bv these terms. 

 The Roles Your Prospect Desires 

 What, exactly, is this process of Identification? Quite simply, 

 it is, first of all, the desire of your prospect to act out certain 

 roles in his life. 

 It is the desire of your prospect to define himself to the world 

 around him — to express the qualities within himself that he val- 

 ues, and the positions he has attained. 

 And how do you utilize this longing for identification when 

 you write your copy? In two ways: First, bv turning your prod-

 uct into an instrument for achieving these roles. And second, by 

 turning that product into an acknowledgement that these roles 

 have already been achieved. 

 Every product you work on should offer vour prospect two 

 separate and distinct reasons for buying it. First, it should offer 

 him the fulfillment of a physical want or need. This is the satis-

 faction your product gives him. And second, it should offer him 

 a particular method of fulfilling that need, that defines him to 

 the outside world as a particular kind of human being. 

 This is the role your product offers to vour prospect. It is 

 the non-functional, super-functional value of that product. And it 

 is built into that product—not bv engineering—but by merchan-

 dising alone. 

 For example, only the poor man today buvs food for its 

 physical satisfactions alone. The average American today selects 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 1 0 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 his food. Selects foods that he believes are modern, because he 

 wishes to be up-to-date. Selects foods that are non-fattening, be-

 cause he wishes to be youthful and slim. Selects foods that come 

 from every country and reflect every taste on earth, because he 

 wishes to be cosmopolitan, adventurous and sophisticated. 

 This man no longer buys food for food alone. He has gained. 

 or he has been given, a whole new vocabulary of wants. He now 

 buys, not only objects, but roles. His life becomes devoted to a 

 quest for acknowledgements—"up-to-date" . . . "youthful" 

 "slim" . . . "cosmopolitan" . . . "adventurous" . . . and "sophisticated" 

 in this one instance alone. 

 And because of this multiplication of wants, this man gives 

 you hundreds of new ways to focus his attention, to stimulate his 

 desire, to build up that desire to the point of purchase. Even-

 new role that he covets—every new longing-for-identification that 

 he develops—gives you one more mass desire that you can har-

 ness to your product. 

 What are these roles? Where do they come from? How do 

 they operate? How do you put them to work for your product? 

 First of all—the roles themselves. There are two kinds. There 

 are roles that define character. And there are roles that express 

 achievement. Let's glance brieflv at each: 

 1. Character Roles 

 Usually expressed by adjectives, or adjectives-turned-nouns. 

 For instance—"progressive" . . . "chic" . . . "charming" . . . "brilliant" . . . "well-read." They are a part of the personality of vour 

 prospect. They belong to him. His task is to pick out the ones 

 he values most, and to develop them. And then to turn the spot-

 light of other people's attention onto them, one after the other. 

 Attainment of these character roles—masterv of them—is 

 not enough. Once they have been mastered, thev must then be 

 acknowledged, valued and admired, or thev are worthless. 

 Here again, your product can serve your prospect in three 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 1 1 1 

 distinct ways—beyond its physical satisfactions—in this constant 

 search for self-definition. First, it can help him achieve mastery 

 of his chosen character roles—such as a book on philosophy, if 

 he wishes to be thought of as well-read. 

 Second, it can help simplify condense or speed up this mas-

 tery—such as a Speed-Reading Course. 

 And third, and most important, it can serve as a symbol of 

 that mastery to invoke the acknowledgement or admiration of 

 his friends—such as a shelf to house both books. 

 You must realize that every one of these values goes far be-

 vond the physical satisfactions of the products themselves. They 

 are supra-functional, and therefore add an extra incentive for pur-

 chase. 

 The book on philosophy might not have been purchased if 

 the prospect wished onlv to satisfy his academic curiosity, and 

 did not also wish to enlighten his friends in conversation. The 

 Speed-Reading Course might not have been purchased if the 

 prospect wished only to absorb more information in a shorter pe-

 riod of time, and did not also wish to use that information to get 

 ahead in both his business and social life. And certainly the book-

 shelves would not have been of the same fine quality-, finish and 

 luxury if the prospect had onlv wished to use them as a store-

 house, and not also as a showpiece. 

 At least half of all purchases made today cannot he under- 

 stood in terms of function alone. It would be absurd for a man 

 to spend $5,000 for a 150-mile-an-hour sports car for functional 

 reasons, when he onlv uses it to drive to and from work on con-

 gested, 35-mile-an-hour parkways. His willingness to spend this 

 money onlv becomes rational when vou take one further fact into 

 consideration—that this 150-mile-an-hour top speed, this hand-

 gear-shift, this fantastic cornering ability all give him as their 

 owner the role of "sportsman"—and very probably "successful 

 sportsman" at that. 

 Every product can benefit from this role-giving power. But 

 there are many products where this ability of character-reinforce-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 1 2 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O E B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 ment—whether built into that product by design, bv society or 

 by advertising—far outweighs in sales value the built-in perfor-

 mance of that product. In such products, it is the role-giving func- 

 tion that sells, and not the performance. 

 One further fact distinguishing these character roles. Since 

 they are not created by society but by the prospect himself, and 

 since they are almost never claimed openly but only hinted at. 

 implied and prompted, therefore they can never truly be tested 

 or measured, and they are ambiguous. They are subject to error. 

 And, more important, they are subject to fantasy. 

 Great areas of these character roles literally exist in the sub-

 conscious. They are never given definite words. They are not 

 stated or discussed, but subtly expressed in symbols and images. 

 Only rarely does the prospect even define them to himself. And 

 even more rarely does he test them against the outside world, to 

 see if they are actually true. 

 Therefore, your prospect is far more reach to believe in the 

 character roles you assign to him, than he is to believe in either 

 your product's performance claims, or the achievement roles it 

 may offer him. If the character role is flattering, such as "viril-

 ity," and if it is subtly expressed in a non-verbal image-svmbol, 

 such as a test pilot smoking a cigarette, than the prospect can 

 easily persuade himself that the same action, smoking, performed 

 on the same product, the cigarette, conveys to him at least some 

 of the implied virility of the genuine possessor—in this case, the 

 pilot. 

 There is no direct claim made in the advertisement. No ver-

 balization to be passed on by the conscious, rational mind. No 

 test situation called for where the prospect must prove that the 

 role is valid. Acceptance is easy painless, non-demanding. 

 This is not true of a performance claim, which must be jus-

 tified in terms of concrete results to our friends. Nor is it true 

 of an achievement role, which must stand up to the harsh reality 

 of our position in everyday life. This superb ease-of-acceptance, 

 this consolation-without-cost feature of the character role is its 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 1 1 3 

 great ^trgrigth, and the reason why it should be used to supple-

 ment the verbal claims in every ad. 

 2. Achievement Roles 

 These are the status roles . . . class roles . . . position roles that 

 are created by every society on earth, and offered to the men 

 and women who can earn them. In a civilization as complex as 

 ours, there are literally hundreds of them—usually expressed bv 

 nouns, with the nouns serving as titles. 

 For example, for men, there are—"Executive" . . . "Home 

 Owner" . . . "$20,000-a-year-Man" . . . "Five Handicap" . . . "Man-On-His-Way-Up" . . . "Block Chairman" . . . and dozens more, em-

 bracing every activity of our lives. 

 For women, the primary achievement role to be won is "Wife," 

 and from then on—"Fashion Setter" . . . "Career Woman" . . . "Good Mother" . . . "Civic Leader" . . . "Power-Behind-the-Throne" . . . 

 "Patron of the Arts" . . . and on, and on. 

 The list, for both men and women, is endless. Each of these 

 roles is an achievement to be won, and held, and — most of all — 

 displayed. 

 Here display is vital—because none of these achievements 

 is obvious. Quite the opposite, they are immaterial and invisi-

 ble—mere titles, roles, bundles of privilege. They do exist—thev 

 are real—and once they are gained, thev have great potential to 

 alter our lives. But that potential must first be translated into 

 physical symbols of success, for everyone around us to see. 

 And the easiest and most universally acknowledged symbols 

 of success in America today are the products we can buy. Prod- 

 ucts that are purchased — not by any stretch of the imagination 

 for their physical function alone — but for the definition they give 

 us as their possessors. In America today we are known — not only 

 by the company we keep — but by the products we own. 

 The most obvious example is the newly-wed woman. Her 

 first act in her new role as "Wife" is to receive a physical gift, 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 1 4 S E C O N D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 which has absolutely no function other than to define her—the 

 wedding ring in which she is married. Weeks before this, she has 

 literally been shedding closets-full of clothes—clothes that still 

 fitted her physically, but not socially—in order to replace them 

 with a new material personality, her trousseau. 

 Her sheets and linens are new. Her furniture and carpeting 

 are new. Even the very roof over her head, todav, in our societv. 

 must be new. Because she is literally a new woman—her new 

 role has transformed her—and she must express that transfor-

 mation in everything she owns. 

 The same principle applies to every aspect of all of our lives. 

 Every social role that we achieve in life is immediately translated 

 into those possessions which we believe express that position most 

 clearly. And as we acquire these possessions throughout our life. 

 what we are doing is constructing for ourselves a "material per-

 sonality," that we carry with us wherever we go, and whose func-

 tion it is to define us, instantly, to whomever we meet. 

 The "Man-On-His-Way-Up," for example, trades in his Ford 

 for a Buick, and, when he becomes an "Executive," trades in his 

 Buick for a Cadillac. The "Career Woman" needs an entirelv 

 different wardrobe than the one she owned as a "Housewife." 

 And when the man of the house gets a raise, the house either 

 grows bigger, or prettier, or more filled with status-definers of 

 every description—or the house itself is discarded, to be replaced 

 by one more befitting the new character of its possessor. 

 How to Put These Longings for Identification 

 to Work for Your Product 

 Thus products become more than products. In addition to 

 their physical functions, they take on new immaterial functions 

 as status definers. They announce our achievements, define our 

 role in life, document our success. 

 All products may benefit from this power to define. But in 

 particular, when you have a product that does the same job as its 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 115 

 competitors, and is so priced that price is no longer a factor, then 

 the prospect's choice will almost overwhelmingly depend on the 

 difference in role that your product offers him. And it is vour job 

 to create this role for him in your ad. 

 The performance of this job—the process of building these 

 character and achievement roles into vour product, to be used 

 bv vour prospect—is the process of Identification, our second 

 mechanism of persuasion. 

 And just as the wish for this identification by vour prospect 

 is a special form of desire—the desire, not for satisfaction, but 

 for recognition—so the method vou use to put it to work for your 

 product follows exactly the same pattern of discovery and mag-

 nification that you would use for anv other desire. 

 First, your job is to discover exactly what kinds of character 

 and achievement roles vour prospect is readv to identify with 

 vour product—what kind of roles he will reject for that prod-

 uct—and which of the accepted roles is the most compelling. 

 And then you must present those chosen roles in such a wav— 

 so vividly and so intensely—that the role vou are projecting will 

 become virtually irresistible. 

 Once again, it is vour market itself that presents vou with 

 both your opportunities and vour limitations. And it is vour own 

 personal skill as a copy writer that determines how effectively 

 vou side-step those limitations, and how fullv you realize the po-

 tential of vour opportunities. 

 First of all—the limitations. Above everything else, of course, 

 you cannot force your market to accept an unrealistic identifica- 

 tion. People assign certain characteristics to certain products. 

 These characteristics may arise out of the product itself—its struc-

 ture or performance, its historv, its cost to produce or sell. Or 

 thev may stem from the role or roles that it plavs in their lives 

 today—or that similar products play in their lives—or that these 

 products plav in the lives of other people, whom thev have seen, 

 heard or read about. 

 These characteristics may be true or false, superficial or 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 1 6 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 profound, flattering or libelous. But as far as your product is con-

 cerned, they are as hard as rock—and just as determinative. They 

 exist. They are facts. They cannot be changed. If vou try to break 

 through them and establish a contradictory image, vou will learn 

 that they form the walls of a prison. 

 But if you decide to build on to them—to use them as a foun-

 dation for sharper, coordinated images, which may be even broader 

 and more appealing—then, if necessary, you can turn those ap-

 parent limitations into the strongest selling points in your ad. 

 Not every product needs this technique, of course. Speak-

 ing in terms of identification potential, there are two kinds of 

 products. One is the product with built-in prestige—the sports 

 car, the swimming pool, the diamond bracelet. These rare and 

 expensive products already embody the identification appeals most 

 Americans want. They actually symbolize these appeals success, 

 achievement, adventure, self-indulgence, exclusivity—so unques-

 tionably that they can be used to weld these same values onto 

 other products. 

 But these other products—by far the overwhelming major-

 ity of the products you will be given to work with—have no such 

 built-in prestige. It is up to you to create their prestige for them. 

 And you must do this by building on the characteristics they al- 

 ready possess—by using these accepted characteristics as a 

 bridge—between the product. . . the image it already has . . . and 

 the prestige-filled image that you want to wind up \vith. 

 We now have all the tools we need to build identification 

 values for our product. We realize that identification longings 

 are a separate and immensely powerful form of desire—a de-

 sire, not for physical satisfaction, but for expression and recog-

 nition. 

 These longings for identification are two-fold. We all wish to 

 express our character, and we all wish to gain recognition for our 

 accomplishments. 

 But we cannot do this openly—verbally. We cannot go around 

 boasting how virile we are, or how rich we are. So we svmbolize 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 1 1 7 

 these prestige claims. We express them in terms ol products— 

 and we buy products that express them. 

 As Americans, living in our culture and our century, there 

 are certain character roles and certain achievement roles that we 

 value more than others. The most general and compelling of these 

 are: the wish to be virile or feminine—the wish to be exciting, 

 unique, fun-filled and adventurous—the wish to be friendly and 

 well-liked—the wish to be important, influential and correct— 

 the wish to be modern and up-to-date—and. above all, the wish 

 to be successful, to make something of our lives. 

 These are the roles most Americans buv. In some splinter 

 markets, other, contradictory roles mav apply. But, in the mass, 

 these are the characteristics that will turn the prospects from one 

 brand to another. 

 The Primary Image of Your Product 

 There is a critical point that separates the process of build-

 ing identification from the process of building desire, namely, that 

 the product you are given has its men personality at the moment 

 you are given it. It has its own characteristics. And these char-

 acteristics may contradict what most Americans want—or simply 

 not include them—or simply not include as many of them as you 

 want. 

 For example, a cigarette is not, by itself, a symbol of success. 

 But vou realize that if you could make it a symbol of success, you 

 could sell many more of them. Nor is a piston ring, by itself, a 

 svmbol of virility—even though that virility image, if vou could 

 create it, would sell manv more piston rings. And, though house-

 hold appliances are not, at first glance, symbols of femininity, 

 women would buv manv more of them if thev could somehow be 

 made feminine. 

 How do you do this? In two steps—the first of which is to 

 identify the primary image that each of these products already 

 has in the mind of your prospects. For instance, a cigarette is 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 1 8 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 virile in almost everyone's mind. And a piston ring is precision-

 machined and full of mechanical beauty to almost every man. 

 And household appliances are time-saving, by virtue of tlie ven 

 functions they perform. 

 These are the primary images of the products vou are called 

 on to sell. These are the accepted images that thev alreadv have 

 in your prospect's mind. Your job now is to use 'these alreadv-

 accepted images as raw material, as a starting point to construct 

 new, double, triple and quadruple images, that draw in more of 

 these most-wanted roles into your product-personality, and mul- 

 tiply its identification appeal. 

 You do this in two wavs: 

 First, by changing the intensity of your primary image. Bv 

 emphasizing and dramatizing that primary image, if it is alreadv 

 acceptable. Or by toning it down, if it is negative or neutral. 

 For example, the male virility naturally associated witli 

 cigarettes is a definite sales aid, even with women. The sheer 

 physical act of smoking—of "playing with fire"—of "breathing 

 fire"—has been for centuries an assertion of manhood and of 

 daring. 

 But Marlboro took this image of virilitv- and intensified i t -

 deepened it—in three ways. First, they presented men who were. 

 in themselves, virile. Second, they presented these men in situa-

 tions or occupations that demand virility. And third, thev took the 

 further "Creative Gamble" of affixing to these men's hands one of 

 the most primitive symbols of virilitv- known to history—the tattoo. 

 A single dominant emotion—virilitv-—symbolized three ways. 

 The impact of repetition reinforced through variation. Far more 

 powerful—far more eye-catching—far more appealing than any-

 one of these images could have been by itself. 

 So far, there has been no difference between this technique 

 and the intensification of desire we discussed previously. Al-

 though we are speaking here in visual terms, the mechanics are 

 exactly the same—the intensification of an already-existing emo-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 1 1 9 

 tion in your prospect, through a series of reinforcing images ex-

 pressing the fulfillment of that emotion. 

 With certain, naturally-favored products, this process of in-

 tensification may be all that is required—though even Marlboro, 

 as mentioned below, goes beyond it. But—and this point is im-

 perative—though the process of intensifying desire for your prod-

 uct ends here, the process of building the proper identification 

 for your product—of building prestige for that product—only- be-

 gins here. 

 For the primary image of vour product may not be favor-

 able. It may be negative—contradicting the roles most people 

 want to play. Or it may simply be neutral—a wallflower prod-

 uct—offering most people no emotional reaction at all. 

 In both these cases, your first suggestion may be to simply 

 discard these primary images altogether, and substitute more fa-

 vorable ones. This has been done in countless advertisements. 

 And it doesn't work—for a very simple reason. Because people 

 just won't believe that a product is what it isn't. You cannot con- 

 tradict accepted images or beliefs in advertising. This is not ad-

 vertising's role. Nor is it really necessary. 

 In order to overcome these unfavorable images, you simply 

 incorporate them in a larger, overall image—lower their emo-

 tional intensity—and use them as readily-accepted bridges to lead 

 your prospect into far more compelling appeals. 

 How to Build New Images Into Your Product 

 This is a single process, but it is made up of two steps. First, 

 as mentioned above, a change in the intensity of your primary-

 image—in this case, subordinating it even though you retain it. 

 And second, using it as a logical link to bring in any number of 

 more favorable images. 

 One of the most striking examples is the Chesterfield ad 

 of 1926—"Blow Some My Wax"—fully examined in Chapter 3. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 2 0 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 Here is pure identification advertising—dealing with an unfa-

 vorable image of two generations' standing—that cigarettes are 

 a "man's product." Although the objective of the campaign was 

 to make smoking, and smoking situations, more acceptable to 

 women, it would have been impossible to do this bv picturing 

 the woman alone. The idea that women would practice this Mas-

 culine act in private, or with each other, was inadmissible. There-

 fore the man must be retained. The accepted image must be 

 acknowledged. 

 But he undergoes two vital transformations. First, he is sub-

 dued. His figure is darkened, almost blended into invisibility with 

 the background. And his position in the picture—his posture— 

 the arrangement of his hands and face as the light plavs over 

 them—all direct the attention of the viewer past the man him-

 self and into the focal point of the picture, the woman sitting be-

 side him. 

 Thus he becomes a mere suggestion of man, leading the 

 viewer into a far more appealing overall image—that of a hand-

 some young couple, alone together on a moonlit beach, height-

 ened emotionally with the carefully-blended-in suggestions of 

 escape, intimacy, and a sense of shared daring. 

 Because the primary image is there—because the smoking 

 is done by the man—the viewer, even a well-brought up woman 

 of the 1920s, accepts the situation. But this acceptance, once 

 established, goes far beyond that primary image. This feminine 

 viewer is also willing to accept the romance of the overall scene— 

 including its emotional undertones of escape from the conven-

 tional rules and boundaries, and its feelings of relaxation and 

 liberty. She is now willing to project herself into this scene. 

 And in accepting the scene as a whole, she is finally led to 

 accepting the climactic words, "Blow some mv way," as being a 

 perfectly natural and acceptable action for her to take, with all 

 its implications for her conduct in the future. 

 This, then, is the process of identification—of building pres-

 tige for your product. To weave favorable social and character 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 121 

 images into the personality of your product, in order to reinforce 

 and even dominate those primary images that your product al-

 ready has. 

 There is onlv one limit to the number, or the range of fa-

 vorable images that vou can add to that product personality. Sim- 

 ply that you must always include the primary image as their base. 

 They must emerge from that primary image, and thev must be 

 logically consistent with its broadest definition. 

 For example, to return to Marlboro, once vou have devel-

 oped the primary image to its peak of intensity then there is ab-

 solutely nothing to stop vou from weaving other powerful appeals 

 into this base. Connotations of success can be included bv the 

 model's clothes, such as the tuxedo worn in the first ads, or bv 

 the possessions he holds. Adventure and excitement can be sug-

 gested by the situation you picture him in, such as on a boat, in 

 a plane, riding horseback, etc. Romance bv a voung girl, mvsterv 

 and affairs of great importance bv a dark background or a brief-

 case, culture and intellectual achievement bv a rare book or an 

 antique telescope. 

 As a matter of fact, many visual symbols, bv themselves, com-

 municate several different roles of great appeal at the same time. 

 For example, the single image of ownership of a fine painting 

 mav express, not only success, but also cultural breeding and in-

 tellectual accomplishment. 

 Such multi-image symbols perform two vital tasks for vour 

 product. They broaden the size of its market bv grafting on new 

 emotional appeals—social and character identifications that reach 

 into the fringe areas of that market—that intrigue people who 

 would not be sufficiently swaved bv the pure functional values 

 of your product. And second, bv adding in these manv-sided emo-

 tional images, thev deepen and intensify the emotional attraction 

 felt for your product bv all the men and women who make up 

 that market. 

 Perhaps this can best be shown bv taking a hypothetical 

 example, of a product with strictly neutral primary images, and 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 2 2 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 developing, and weaving together, a network of far stronger 

 emotional images for it. 

 Let's start with piston rings, and assume that a new tvpe of 

 piston ring has just been developed, that lasts longer and there-

 fore saves oil and gas. Our body copy, of course, develops this 

 saving theme. We have exploited the functional advantages of 

 the product as far as possible. We are now ready to reinforce 

 these benefits by expanding the product's social and character 

 appeals. 

 We start by taking inventory. We have a prodiret—piston 

 rings. It has only a few primary images —mechanical, precision-

 made, unseen. Nothing exciting here. It also has a primary sit- 

 uation —replacement, and always by a mechanic, and usually onlv 

 when there's trouble. 

 These primary images are either neutral or negative. But 

 they're all we have to work with. They, and they alone, must form 

 the foundation, must set the direction, for every other appeal we 

 bring into the over-all image we are constructing. 

 So we know that we must deal with the act of replacement, 

 and that the replacement must be done by a mechanic. These 

 are our limitations— but once we observe them, we turn them into 

 the starting point for the true emotional message ice want to 

 broadcast through our ad. We take each of these primary ele- 

 ments, and glamorize, dramatize and emotionalize them to the 

 brink. 

 The car itself—what kind of car shall it be? Certainly not a 

 beat-up family sedan. Why not a Mercedes SL-300—a $12,000 

 sports car with its distinctive grill-work sides, and all the emo-

 tional extras of power, speed, skill-in-handling, plus sophistica-

 tion, success and downright excitement. 

 Now the garage—what should it look like? A sports-car shop, 

 of course. Neat, clean, precise. With high-power equipment 

 gleaming chrome and steel—hanging on the walls, ready on the 

 shelves, being installed on other sports models in the background. 

 The mechanic is not young, not old, simply mature. Rugged, 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 1 2 3 

 knowledgeable, precise. He's sure of what he's doing—there isn't 

 a wasted motion or a wasted tool anywhere about him. 

 The owner of the car is young, wiry, yirile, but he too has 

 been around. (Put into words, these images must take on a mea-

 sure of disbelief, which we express by saying they're "corny." 

 However, expressed in visual terms, where they can be symbol-

 ized, and therefore implied rather than named, they enter into 

 our minds unnoticed, and we accept them without question. Ver-

 bal terms—words and sentences—can be used to imply images 

 of identification; but these are different tvpes of images, and must 

 be conveyed in a different way. We will touch on this verbal 

 image building again, as related to excitement and mood, in Chap-

 ter 14. 

 The owner is not a professional driver, but he races the car 

 for sport (we know this bv the roll-over bar over the back of the 

 seats). He loves this car (its perfect shine, its gleaming chrome 

 engine, its complete absence of even a spot of dirt). He too is 

 precise (the chronometer on his wrist). And he carries his suc-

 cess with a complete casualness (the absence of anv special driv-

 ing outfit—just slacks and a sport shirt). 

 And what about the relationship between the two men? 

 Knowledge complementing skill. The expert in one field advising 

 the expert in another. Comfort, understanding, teamwork—lead-

 ing to mutual achievement. 

 And what are thev doing? Replacing rings, of course. But 

 not because the old rings have developed trouble (nothing in this 

 car would be left unchecked long enough to have developed a 

 flaw). But because this mechanic is installing these new rings in 

 this car as high-performance equipment, exactly as he would in-

 stall a supercharger to increase its horsepower. 

 Everything about the picture—its camera angle, its compo-

 sition, its lighting, the angle of the men's heads and arms as thev 

 examine the rings—develops the emotion of precision and the 

 excitement and drama of discovering new performance through 

 greater and greater precision. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 2 4 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 It is a picture, a situation and a mood that invites partici-

 pation. The reader may not notice every emotional detail that 

 you have developed; but he will sense the excitement and plea-

 sure that you have built up. He will wish to share in this world. 

 And he will buy the product that gives him this world—that of-

 fers it as a bonus to all its functional and physical satisfactions. 

 On the Limits to the Images Your 

 Prospects Will Identify With 

 I must insert a warning here. Although these identification -

 images are immensely powerful when used correctly, there arc 

 also strict rules and limits to their use. And, if they are used in-

 correctly, they can be disastrous. 

 Many campaigns have collapsed because they have asked 

 their market to identify themselves with an unbelievable image. 

 For example, the deodorant-soap campaign of several vears ago 

 that used an elite, society image to sell the mass market. The 

 men and women who composed the market could not make the 

 jump between themselves and the characters pictured in the ad. 

 And they not only refused to believe the suggested identification. 

 but the disbelief spread to the performance claims themselves. 

 and killed the sales. 

 The key to avoiding such mistakes, of course, is the struc-

 ture of the word, unbelievable. What makes an image—or a claim, 

 or an idea—believable or not believable? We shall discuss this 

 question thoroughly in the next few chapters. However, in rela-

 tion to image-building, the answer lies in two points: 

 1. What do people already believe about the personality of 

 your product? Do they believe, today, that it has the character 

 traits that you say it has? And—if they do—can they identify 

 themselves, their lives, their present position in society, or their 

 next step up in society with these traits? 

 If the answer to both these questions is Yes, then you can 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 1 2 5 

 use the image exactly as you've conceived it. If, however, either 

 one of the answers is No, then vou must move on to the second 

 step: 

 2. What other primary image do I have to use as a 

 believability-bridge to connect what my prospect already believes 

 with what I want him to believe when he finishes my ad? If he 

 doesn't believe that mv product has those desirable character 

 traits, then I have to start with what he already believes. I have 

 to use these images as a base, and build up to my desired over-

 all image, as we discussed before. 

 And, in addition, if mv prospect believes that my product 

 does possess these target-traits, but doesn't believe that they re-

 late to his life, as it exists in either the present or the future, 

 then again I have to use a bridge-image. I have to insert a first-

 seen image that he can immediately identify with, and use that 

 acceptable identification as^a hook to hang my target-image on to. 

 For example, in the Marlboro ad, men who would never 

 identify themselves immediately with a yachting costume or an 

 opera hat, accepted the image completely after it was introduced 

 by the acceptable virility concept of the male model smoking the 

 cigarette. 

 If you demand that your prospect jump across a believability-

 chasm, vour ad will fail. If, however, you build a bridge of ideas 

 or images across that chasm—starting on his side—then he will 

 let vou lead him almost anywhere. 

 On Saleable Identifications Springing 

 From the Physical Product Itself 

 We mentioned in Chapter 2 that for the purposes of prepar-

 ing an advertisement, everv product can be considered to be 

 two products. There is the functional product—what the prod-

 uct does for the consumer. And there is the physical product— 

 what the consumer actually gets. In tapping mass desire, we put 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 2 6 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 aside the physical product, and concentrated on functional per-

 formances. Now, in searching for image-sources to build pow-

 erful identifications, we re-examine the physical product itself 

 lhe physical product can be broken down into three sem 

 rate areas: l c 

 1. Its appearance; 

 2. Its components and structure; and 

 3. The technical background from which it emerged 

 Each one of these areas has image potential. In each one of 

 them you may find strong primary images that already exist Or 

 m each one of them you may be able to graft on related images 

 that will greatly increase the sales of your product 

 For example, the appearance of'vour product. As you re-

 ceive it, that product's appearance is probably determined by func-

 tion. Lets say that the product is mechanical, like a car In this 

 case, its appearance will be a combination of what it has to do 

 (ro 1 on a highway, carry six people, shelter them against wind 

 and rain, etc.), and the cheapest practical way of doing it. Out 

 of this combination of performance and^ economy comes the raw 

 shell of your c a r - i t s basic functional appearance. It is at this 

 point that you start to build in the images. 

 You do this in two ways. First, you exploit the dramatic pri-

 mary images that already exist in the extreme forms of your prod-

 uct. For cars, for instance, you borrow from the glamour c a r s -

 the severe streamlining and stabilizing fin of the racing c a r - t h e 

 hub caps and wheel wells of the sports c a r - t h e exhaust ports 

 and roof line of the custom car. And you blend their feeling of 

 excitement and power and distinction into the family sedan 

 But this is only the first step. Once you have exploited the 

 already-existing primary images in your p r o d u c t - i f there are 

 a n y - y o u then begin to weave in other images that have ab-

 solutely nothing to do with the necessary physical structure of 

 your product. And you alter the appearance of your product to 

 accommodate and express these images. ' ' 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 1 2 7 

 For example, many products are chemical rather than me-

 chanical. They are liquids, powders, sprays, granulates, etc. There-

 fore their physical appearance, to the manufacturer, is completely 

 arbitrary. Outside of the need to hold them together and shield 

 them against wear, their physical package can take any shape you 

 wish. 

 Here, of course, there are no primary images arising from 

 functional appearance at all. All the images that you wish to shape 

 into vour package must be borrowed. And where do you borrow 

 them from? From the background of your product. Or from its 

 components. Or from the values of society as a whole. 

 For example, the product's background. One of the most bril-

 liant packaging concepts in years was Johnson & Johnson's Mi- 

 crin. Here was a mouth wash—a liquid—sold in drug stores and 

 supermarkets—whose effectiveness far exceeded any similar prod-

 uct ever sold before. How were thev to convey that effectiveness 

 to the consumer at a glance? 

 They simply took the physical shape of glass containers that 

 are found only in doctors' offices and operating rooms, and tran-

 scribed that exact shape onto an over-the-counter product. Use 

 this shape to house an ice-blue liquid, that in itself suggests med-

 ical cleanliness, and you have a product that says instantly, "This 

 is doctor's-liquidNThis is medicine. This works." 

 Here the background of the product is symbolized in the 

 product's container. So effectively that the container itself be-

 comes the finest image-illustration that the agency could use in 

 creating their ad. Where the background of your product con- 

 tains elements that inspire excitement, drama, quality or heliev- 

 ahilitij to your prospect, then those elements should he expressed 

 either in the product itself, or in its package, or in its ad. 

 The same hypothesis holds true for the components that make 

 up your product. If vour product has electronic components, for 

 example, it should have an electronic flavor to both its appear-

 ance and its advertising. Shoiv the radar installations, guided mis-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 2 8 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 

 siles, jet aircraft that use the same parts. Life for the average man 

 is dull, completely lacking in adventure. Offer to let him partici- 

 pate in the frontier explorations of our world, and vou have welded 

 a tremendously potent appeal onto your product' 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 9 

 T H E THIRD TECHNIQUE 

 OF BREAKTHROUGH 

 COPY: GRADUALEATION 

 How to Make Your Prospect Believe 

 Your Claims Before You State Them 

 As we have learned before, for the 

 purpose of persuasion, the human mind may be divided into three 

 dimensions—three great rivers of emotional force that determine 

 the reaction to your ad, and therefore its success or failure. 

 The first of these dimensions is Desire —want, yearning, mo-

 tivation—with specific goals and/or cures in mind—with the 

 prospect begging to be shown how to obtain them. It is the copy 

 writer's job to make sure the path to these goals goes through 

 the product—and to make sure that the prospect can visualize 

 every drop of satisfaction that their achievement will give him. 

 The second dimension is Identification —the need for ex-

 pression and recognition—unformulated, unspoken, at least par-

 tially unconscious—searching for symbols, definitions and 

 embodiments. It is the copv writer's job to crystallize these self-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 3 0 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 definitions and emboch' them in his product—so that the product 

 may be used, not only as a source of physical satisfaction, but also 

 as a symbolic extension of the personality of the prospect for whom 

 it is intended. 

 Until now, this book has been concerned with these first two 

 dimensions. They have determined the selection of our headline. 

 and our illustration, and most of the content of our ad. 

 But—important as they are—desire and identification alone 

 are never enough. By themselves, they can never produce the full 

 reaction the copy writer must have if he is to achieve the maxi-

 mum success with his product. No matter how intense the desire. 

 no matter how demanding the need to identify, both these reac-

 tions must be fused with a third great emotional force—Belief— 

 before they can produce the final overwhelming determinant of 

 action—Absolute Conviction. 

 It is this fusion of desire and belief—this conviction—this 

 certainty—this feeling in the prospect of being right in his choice— 

 of being assured of what he has been promised—that the cop,/ 

 writer seeks as his ultimate goal. 

 And it is to this third dimension of the human mind—the 

 Belief that produces this certainty—that we now turn. 

 What Exactly Is Belief? 

 It is perhaps the most complex fusion of thought and emo-

 tion in the human mind. It is, first of all, your prospects mental 

 picture of the world he lives in—what facts make it up, how it 

 works, in what direction its truths and values lie. 

 But these accepted facts, truths, values and opinions are 

 only the raw material of belief. Even more important is the vast 

 amount of emotional security he derives from these beliefs. It is 

 the wonderful feeling of comfort and reassurance of living in a 

 world that has meaning, where there are answers to be had. 

 where somehow the facts all fit. A world that he can understand 

 and depend on, that he can predict, that will stav together and 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 1 3 1 

 not blow up in his face tomorrow morning or the morning after 

 that. 

 Do not be misled for even a moment. The need to believe— 

 and the need for secure beliefs—is just as powerful an emotional 

 force as the strongest desire for physical satisfaction, or the most 

 urgent search for expression. 

 Most adults have done their basic learning of these beliefs 

 when they were children. At that time, and in that dependent 

 stage of their lives, they laid down the primary channels of be-

 lief that their minds would follow for the rest of their days. They 

 were forced to do this, in order to understand the world, to gain 

 its approval, to trust and master it, and to develop themselves 

 into self-sustaining adults. 

 To ask them to shatter even one of these alreadv-established 

 lines of belief—to plunge into uncertainty again—to be forced to 

 reassemble their beliefs in new, untested ways—is to ask them 

 to become children again. And—unless they are "frightened be-

 yond belief," unless their entire conceptual world has crumbled 

 around them—thev simply will not do it. 

 The basic rule of belief, then, can simply be stated as this: 

 If vou violate vour prospect's established beliefs in the slight-

 est degree—either in content or direction—then nothing you 

 promise him, no matter how appealing, can save your ad. 

 But, on the other hand, and even more important: 

 If you can channel the tremendous force of his belief—either 

 in content or direction—behind only one claim, no matter how 

 small, then that one fully-believed claim will sell more goods than 

 all the half-questioned promises vour competitors can write for 

 all the rest of their days. This channeling of belief is so power-

 ful that, if properlv directed, it will even support othenvise-absurd 

 claims. 

 It is simply a question of whether you are going to paddle 

 upstream or down. Whether vou are going to work against the 

 tide of established belief, or with it. 

 As far as advertising is concerned, then, belief is immutable. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 3 2 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 It cannot be changed. It must be complied with at everv step. 

 Every one of the statements you make in vour ad must fit in 

 with your prospects version of "the facts" at that precise mo-

 ment. It is not the function of your ad to change those facts. 

 But it is its function—and one of its great sources of strength— 

 to extend them. To build a bridge of belief between those facts as 

 they exist in your prospect's mind today—and the ultimate facts 

 your prospect must believe if he is to accept your claims. 

 This process of starting with the facts that vour prospect is 

 already willing to accept, and leading him logically and comfort-

 ably through a gradual succession of more and more remote 

 facts—each of which he has been prepared in turn to accept— 

 is called Gradualization. It is the third Process of Persuasion. 

 Mind you, this process of Gradualization has nothing to do 

 with the offering of proof, or reason-why explanations, or testi-

 monials or documentation. Each of these mechanisms of belief 

 adds to the power of your ad, and we will explore each of them 

 in turn in the chapters that follow. 

 In Chapter 11, we will discuss the verbal demonstration that 

 your product does what you claim—Mechanization. 

 In Chapter 12, we will discuss the destruction of alternate 

 ways of satisfying that same desire—Concentration. 

 In Chapter 14, we will discuss the offering of authorities and 

 proof, the reassurance that your prospect has made a wise c h o i c e -

 Verification. 

 All these devices build belief. But by far the most funda-

 mental of all—though the most inconspicuous—is Gradualization. 

 For Gradualization determines—not the content of your ad—but 

 its structure, its architecture, the way i/ou build it.' 

 We have already seen that it is the'dominating desire of your 

 prospect that determines the content of vour ad. It is his long-

 ings for identification and self-expression that, in most cases, de-

 termine your illustrations. 

 But it is the facts that he believes in and accepts, and the 

 way that he passes that acceptance along from one fact to 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 1 3 3 

 another, that determines that ad's development—the arrangement 

 of your claims and your images and vour proofs, so that there is 

 a step-bv-step strengthening—not only of your prospect's desire— 

 but of his conviction that the satisfaction of that desire will come 

 true through your product. 

 The Architecture of Belief 

 In essence, then, the theory of Gradualization is based upon 

 this fact: 

 That every claim, everv image, every proof in your ad has 

 two separate sources of strength— 

 1. The content of that statement itself; and 

 2. The preparation vou have made for that statement—either 

 by recognizing that preparation as already existing in your prospect's 

 mind, or bv deliberately laving the groundwork for that statement 

 in the preceding portion of the ad itself. 

 And, because of this fact, we can strengthen the power of 

 each of these statements in two separate ways— 

 1. Bv increasing the intensity of its content—by making 

 greater promises, bv portraying more dramatic images, by offer-

 ing more compelling proof; and/or 

 2. Bv changing the place or position or sequence in which 

 that statement occurs in the ad—by strengthening the ground-

 work for belief in that statement by the material which precedes 

 it—and therefore increasing the intensity of belief given to it— 

 the immediate acceptance of its content, without question, when 

 the prospect encounters it in vour ad. 

 Make no mistake, it is this acceptance that we are looking 

 for. Effective advertising, like effective literature, is built—not of 

 words—but of reactions. We put down on paper an architecture 

 of words. If these words are effective, they evoke, in turn, an ar-

 chitecture of reactions in our prospect's mind. We are creating a 

 stream of acceptances, with a definite sequence and content and 

 direction, and, if we are successful, with a definite goal—the 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 3 4 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CRADUALIZATION 

 absolute conviction in your prospects mind that he must have 

 your product. 

 This is the essence of building your ad. We now turn to the 

 techniques of its accomplishment. 

 A New Definition of Awareness 

 We now know that Gradualization is the art of starting your 

 ad with a statement that will be immediately and entirely ac-

 cepted, and then building a chain of subsequent acceptances upon 

 this first statement. The purpose of this chain of acceptances is 

 to lead your reader to a goal conclusion, which he will then ac-

 cept, but which he would not as readily or as thoroughly have 

 accepted without the preliminary statements. 

 This quest for acceptance begins, of course, with vour head-

 line. This all-important first statement that you make—this meet-

 ing place between your story and your prospect—must not only 

 be capable of awakening interest and desire, but of being ac-

 cepted at the very first glance as being true. 

 Interest and believability—these are the two requirements 

 that determine your headline. We have already discussed these 

 requirements in Chapter 2, on the State of Awareness of our 

 market. 

 We can now redefine this State of Awareness as readiness to 

 accept. And we can now say—especially in the Fifth Stage of 

 Awareness—that the effectiveness of your headline is as much de- 

 termined by the willingness of your audience to believe what it 

 says, as it is by the promises it makes. 

 This is the reason that you cannot always use the most pow-

 erful claim in your headline. Or even the very problem that your 

 product solves. Because without supporting evidence already ex-

 isting in the mind of your prospect to prepare him for that head-

 line claim, he just won't believe it. Either he'll believe that it's 

 exaggerated or false, or he just won't believe it applies to him. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 1 3 5 

 In either case, too many of your prospects turn away without 

 reading on, and your ad fails. 

 This fact—that your most powerful claim does not always 

 make vour most powerful headline—is a paradox that many copy 

 writers still cannot accept. Mail order advertisers, however, have 

 a simple wav of proving it. When a power-claim headline doesn't 

 work—for reasons either of Awareness or Sophistication—they 

 immediatelv split it against a second head, with far fewer claims 

 in it, but far more likely to be believed. Then they build a belief-

 bridge from this second headline, to the same exact claims they 

 had featured in the first, but now anticipated by careful prepa-

 ration every step along the way. 

 A Detailed Example 

 Let us take such an ad—that we have already glanced at in 

 Chapter 2—and break down its structure step by step. What we 

 are looking for here is not content, nor promises, nor claims; but 

 the way these promises and claims arc arranged in the ad, to 

 help each one of them gain full acceptance when it is encoun- 

 tered in turn by the prospect. 

 This ad was written in 1951. Its purpose was to sell a Tele-

 vision Repair Manual. Theoretically, every TV owner who was 

 having anv trouble with his set (and almost all of them were at 

 that time) was a prospect. But, before the prospect could be 

 turned into a customer, he had to believe two things: 

 1. That he could save money by making his own TV repairs; 

 and 

 2. That he was capable of making them. 

 Both these statements were matters of fact. The average TV 

 owner certainlv could save money if he had made his own re-

 pairs; and about 80% of those repairs were simple enough for 

 him to make himself. 

 But the overwhelming majority of prospects simply didn't 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 3 6 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 realize these facts. Most of them thought of themselves as non-

 handymen, even in relation to far simpler devices than a televi-

 sion set. And, in 1951, the TV set was considered a complicated 

 mechanical monster, far beyond their poor powers to understand 

 let alone correct. 

 These two factors blocked the use of the obvious power-

 claim headline for this product. Such a headline was written and 

 tested—"Save up to $100 a Year on Your TV Repairs!"—but it 

 failed to make a profit. The obvious was unsuccessful. Power 

 alone could not move the product. 

 Two tasks faced the copy writer in revising this ad. First, he 

 had to reach all his prospects in this market, and not just those 

 among them who considered themselves handymen. And second, 

 he had to convince all these non-handymen prospects that their 

 sets weren't really such fragile, complicated monsters after all, 

 and that they themselves could easily correct most troubles that 

 arose. 

 Once these two statements were believed by the prospect 

 and only then—could the previous headline claim of "Save up to 

 $100 a year on your TV repairs" be brought in at full power. Let 

 us see, acceptance by acceptance, how this new ad built to that 

 point: 

 The headline, first of all, would have to be a general state-

 ment, crystallizing and exploiting the universal resentment against 

 the high TV repair bills, the $60-a-vear TV service contracts that 

 were then in existence, and the outright thievery that occurred 

 in only a small fraction of the TV repair shops, but that had stig-

 matized the entire industry. From there—from this universally-

 accepted resentment—the ad could then build toward the two 

 goal conclusions listed above. Let us see how this was done, state-

 ment by statement. 

 Here is the new headline: 

 "WHY HAVEN'T TV OWNERS BEEN TOLD 

 THESE FACTS?" 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 1 3 7 

 No claim. No promise—except that of disclosure. But here 

 is an implication of foul plav, which echoed the existing suspi-

 cion in the TV owner himself. Here is a crystallization and out-

 right expression that the average owner felt toward being taken. 

 Facts have been withheld. This is something he can agree with! 

 Thus, having achieved its first acceptance by its suspicion-

 headline, the ad reinforces that effect by an inclusion-question. 

 It asks a questions which, in form, seems to limit the market; but 

 which, in content, actually assures the correct answer by the over-

 whelming majority of it: 

 "Was i/our set purchased after the spring of 1947?" 

 9 5 % of television owners would answer Yes. Thus the ad has 

 built two acceptances in its first two sentences. It has started a 

 Habit of Agreement in its reader. It now exploits that agreement 

 by making its first definite promise in the third sentence: 

 "Then here is the full, uncensored stonj of how yon 

 can avoid those $15-$20 repair bills — avoid those $30-$60 

 a year service fees — and still get the perfect, movie-clear 

 pictures you've dreamed about!" 

 H o w Belief Was Built Into the O p e n i n g 

 This is the ad's first claim. Its content alone is extremelv 

 powerful. But that powerful content—which otherwise might drive 

 many readers awav as being just too fantastic to be believed— 

 has been given extra belief—has been loaned, as it were, extra 

 belief—not only by the first two sentences that preceded it—but 

 by these deliberate constructions in the statement itself: 

 1. By the grammatical construction, "Was your. . ." in the 

 second sentence, and "Then . . ." in the third which by its very 

 form generates belief. It does this by implying exclusion. It says 

 that the promise will come true only in certain cases; that it will 

 only work for television sets purchased after 1947; that the ad 

 cannot make this promise for sets purchased earlier. Thus it adds 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 138 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 credence to whatever statement follows it. Yon can feel this added 

 believability yourself by taking out the lead-word "Then" from 

 the sentence and reading it again. Immediately, it loses half its 

 force—force added to the content of the statement by the 

 grammatical-bridge tying it in to the first two acceptances. 

 2. The second attempt at adding believabilitv is bv the de-

 scriptive nature of the promise. It is not onlv a promise of re-

 ward (the money saved), but a catalog of almost-universal symp-

 toms (repair bills and service fees). Since the overwhelming 

 majority of set owners are suffering from these problems, their 

 descriptions evoke two more "Yes—I have them" reactions from 

 the reader, and carry these reactions over to the save-monev 

 claims that immediately follow them. If these descriptions were 

 eliminated, the money-saving claims would be much weaker: 

 "Then here is the full, uncensored story of liow you can save 

 $15-$20—save $30-$60—save $90-$ 100 on your' TY set—and 

 still get the perfect, movie-clear pictures you've dreamed about!" 

 3. And finally, even though the causes of the set owner's 

 problems are specifically described, the cures for them are de-

 liberately left ambiguous. The fact that thev will save otherwise 

 wasted money, that they will get improved reception, is included— 

 how they will do this is not. The mechanism bv which these goals 

 will be accomplished is left out. It is left out because the reader 

 has not yet been prepared for it. If he were to learn, at this mo-

 ment in the ad, that he had to make repairs on his set to save 

 this money, the average reader would turn the page. So he is 

 given specific symptoms, that he will agree he has, and specific 

 savings by eliminating them, that are certainly logical to expect. 

 He may or may not accept all these three claims in the sentence 

 completely; but the strength of their promise, the two or three 

 or four acceptances that he has already given, and the implied 

 disclosures still remaining in the body of the ad, should be enough 

 to carry him on, to this next paragraph: 

 "How many times this week have you had to get up to fix 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 1 3 9 

 a jumpy TV picture? . . . How many times have you had to put 

 up with ghosts? . . . How many times. . . ." 

 H e r e again is reinforcement of belief—the description of 

 universal symptoms—the coaxing out of a stream of agreements. 

 "Yes . . . Yes . . . Yes"—he must answer if he has had trouble with 

 his set. A habit of acceptance is being built inside him. Trust is 

 being formed, layer by laver—as each question poses a test, and 

 each ves answer proves to the reader that the ad is talking about 

 him. 

 Already the ad is beginning to weave its pattern of promise 

 and belief and then promise again. Now, with as many as seven 

 or eight agreements behind it to establish a firm foundation of 

 belief, the ad moves on to its next great promise: 

 "90% Of These Breakdowns Are Unnecessary!" 

 "All of these breakdowns may have seemed tragic to 

 you at the moment they happened — but here is the real 

 tragedy! Do you know that the same exact set that you now 

 have in your front room . . . has been playing in manu- 

 facturer's test rooms for months — and playing perfectly!" 

 Goal Conclusions 

 The ad is now laving the1 basis for the first of its two goal 

 conclusions—that TV sets are not fragile—that they have amaz-

 ing endurance if they are properlv cared for. Only when the 

 reader accepts this fact, can the ad go on to its second conclu-

 sion—that whatever minor breakdowns do occur can be easily 

 handled bv the owner himself. 

 But the ad is still five paragraphs awav from any mention of 

 the owner touching his set. First it must establish the depend-

 ability of the set; and it does this bv two methods. At the start, 

 in the following two paragraphs, it gives graphic descriptions of 

 the manufacturer's own tests used to establish this dependability: 

 "These sets have been subjected to 'Breakdown Tests' 

 that would seem incredible to the average owner. They have 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 140 THIRD TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 been tamed on for 24 hours a day—7 days a week 4 

 iceeks a month. Some of these sets have been naming with- 

 out a moment's pause for as much as 17 months. 

 "These sets have been tested against almost every con- 

 ceivable type of viewing hazard. . . up to 120 miles away 

 from the station . . . against the interference of an entire 

 warehouse of electrical appliances . . . in special, steel-ribbed 

 buildings, which ordinarily would produce several distinct 

 ghosts. 

 "And in almost every one of these cases, these sets 

 have produced perfect, movie-clear pictures—without major 

 breakdowns—for as much as one full year! Here are some 

 of the reasons why:" 

 Then, when the reader has fully visualized the impact of 

 these test reports, the ad now turns to expert authority and log- 

 ical construction to reinforce this belief. Notice in the next few-

 paragraphs how the ad picks up the already-accepted condition. 

 "If your set were properly cared for, as these sets were . . .", and uses that now-established condition to prove the series of statements that follow it: 

 "What TV Experts Have Learned About Your Set!" 

 "If your set were properly cared for — as these sets 

 were cared for in these tests—it need break down only once 

 during the entire year! In other words, you may actually 

 have to call in a repairman only once during the entire 

 year You can save the $30-$60 'service fees you are now- 

 paying—and you can save most of the SI OS 15 repair bills." 

 "If your set was properly cared for. if can actually give 

 you perfect, movie-clear reception the other 364 days a year. 

 It can give you this perfect reception without special 'elec- 

 tronic equipment—without the help of a repairman—up to 

 100 miles away from your station." 

 Notice that in these two paragraphs, the ad returns to the 

 claims made in the third sentence—repeats them almost word for 

 word—and then gives logical proof, in logical form, for each of 

 them. As we have pointed out before, these claims— "you can avoid 

 those $15-420 repair bills—avoid those $30-$60 a year service 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 141 

 fees — and still get the perfect, movie-clear picture ijou've dreamed 

 about!" —were stated in the third sentence without supporting proof 

 at that time; but with strong implication— "Here is the full, un- 

 censored. story . . ." —that such proof would follow. 

 That proof is now submitted, in an extremely formal and log-

 ical structure. Thus the ad again weaves proof into promise—re-

 peating previous claims in a new context of full documentation, 

 where it could only suggest that they would be proven before. 

 Notice also that this logical proof— "If your set were cared 

 for. . . it need break down only once a year. . . you need call a 

 repairman only once a year. . . you save the service fees and most 

 repair bills." —is, in itself, solidly grounded in the test-proof pre-

 sented in the paragraphs before it— "being subjected to Break- 

 down tests . . . against almost every type of viewing hazard . . . 

 and produced perfect pictures, without breakdowns, for as much 

 as one full year" Thus a chain of proof upon proof is constructed— 

 each new statement repeating the heart of the proof before it. 

 Thus the ad has now proved—bv using the Mechanism of In-

 tensification—by repeating the same theme-content seven differ-

 ent times in seven different wavs—that vour TV set is dependable. 

 The Ultimate Objective 

 This was the first goal-conclusion. At this point the reader 

 is convinced that it is true. The ad is now ready to go on to prove 

 the second goal conclusion: that the owner can correct minor 

 breakdowns himself. 

 It begins this proof in the verv next paragraph, in this way: 

 "And, most important, these experts have discovered 

 that you do not have to he a handyman or a mechanic in 

 order to coax this performance out of your set! Here's why" 

 Notice that it is in this paragraph that the entirely-new (to 

 the reader) assumption—that vou can fix your own minor break-

 downs—is first introduced. Yet its novelty is deliberately con-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 4 2 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 cealed; it is presented as though it were simply another rephrasing 

 of the bv-now already accepted dependability conclusion. There 

 is therefore no break in the logical flow of proof. Acceptance is 

 built into this entirely new statement in these four different ways: 

 1. By paragraph parallelism. By framing the statement as the 

 last of a series of similar paragraphs—all the others of which have 

 already been accepted—instead of physically setting it off as a 

 new point with its own sub head and a different construction, as 

 the reader would ordinarily expect. 

 2. By the lead word, "And," a tie-in phrase, which indicates 

 that the sentence accompanying it is the same as those that have 

 gone before. 

 3. By immediately following "And" by a second tie-in phrase, 

 "most important," which again implies that the remainder of the

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 statement is part of the series that has gone before. 

 4. And finally, by repeating the phrase, "these experts have 

 discovered," which echoes the identifying subhead at the begin-

 ning of the series, and carries on the acceptance-momentum of 

 the series as a whole. 

 All these deliberate constructions combine to give this short, 

 but vital, transitional paragraph the acceptance, and therefore the 

 believability, of all the careful planning that has gone before it. 

 They allow the reader to make what otherwise might be a jar-

 ring transition from already-established proof to an entirely new 

 promise with a minimum of effort. 

 Now the ad builds its final step—showing that the only re-

 pairs that the average owner will have to make are actually minor 

 external adjustments on his set. Notice how it integrates this new-

 extension of its previous thought into what has gone before bv 

 starting with the phrase, once again, "These experts have dis-

 covered . . . " 

 Here are the next three paragraphs: 

 "Five Minutes a Week for Perfect Reception." 

 "These T\r experts have discovered that ipur 7T set 

 is a great deal like your body in this respect—that it gives 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: C R A D L A L I Z A T I O N 1 4 3 

 you learning signals before it has a major breakdown. For 

 instance, after your set was installed, it probably played per- 

 fectly for the first week. But then it began to suffer from the 

 vibration, the jarring, the interference of other electrical ap- 

 pliances in your home. The picture might suddenly begin to 

 flop over or flicker — lines may appear on your screen. 

 "Now — and this is important — if you had the knowledge 

 to quickly make a few minor adjustments, on the outside 

 controls of your set, then you could correct those symp- 

 toms, you could keep that set playing peifectly, and you 

 could prevent major breakdowns in exactly the same way 

 they were prevented in these manufacturers' tests. 

 "If you do not have this knowledge . . . if you do not 

 make these adjustments, then your set trill weaken, you will 

 get a consistently bad picture, and you will have to call a 

 repairman." 

 The second goal-conclusion of the ad has now been reached. 

 At this stage of the copy, the reader now knows: 

 f. That his set is dependable enough to ayoid major break-

 downs during by far the greatest majority of the time he will play-

 it; and 

 2. That if he obtains the proper knowledge, he can correct 

 minor breakdowns himself, and help prevent the gradual forma-

 tion of major breakdowns, by making a few simple adjustments 

 to the outside controls of his set. 

 Therefore, the stage has now- been set for the final conclu-

 sion—the pay-off conclusion—a conclusion with all the inevitable 

 logical force of a syllogism—that: 

 3. The owner should obtain this knowledge—make these 

 minor adjustments himself—and therefore save the money he is 

 paying today for sen-ice contracts, and save by far the greatest 

 majority of the money he is paying for repair bills. 

 H e r e is how this final conclusion is phrased by the copy: 

 "It's as simple as that. You pay a repairman — not for 

 his work — but for his knowledge. If you had that knowl- 

 edge yourself — then you would not have to pay him at all." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 144 

 T E C H N I Q U E OF B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CRADLE 

 A Restatement of Our Basic Theory 

 We have taken a great deal of space to analyze, in exact de-

 tail, one ad, and the structure of believabilitv that underlies the 

 effectiveness of its claims. 

 We have done this for two reasons: 

 1. To show how the goal-conclusion—the introduction of the 

 product claim itself—may be made far more effective if it is de- 

 layed till the prospect has been prepared to accept it. And 

 2. To show how this full acceptance—this willingness to be-

 lieve without question-can gradually be built up, layer by laver 

 agreement by agreement, by use of the proper structure.' ' 

 Let us now state formally some of the rules we have dis 

 covered in this analysis, and some of the devices vou can use 

 time after time, to create the maximum structural believabiliti, 

 tor each of your advertisements. 

 Here are the basic principles: 

 Gradualization is the art of stating a claim in such a wav 

 that it will receive the greatest possible acceptance and/or be-

 lievabilitv from your prospect. 

 Belief ultimately depends upon structure. Just as desire de-

 pends upon promise, so belief in that promise depends upon the 

 amount of preparation that promise has been given before vour 

 reader is asked to accept it. 

 One fully-believed promise has ten times the sales power of-

 ten partially-believed promises. Most copy writers try to strengthen 

 ads by piling promise upon promise. What thev usually get for 

 their troubles is greater sales resistance from their prospects and 

 trouble from the E T C . They could far better invest the same 

 time in strengthening the believabilitu-structure of the original 

 justifiable promise. 

 Now, how do you strengthen this believability-structure* 

 What are the devices you can choose from to add believabilitv 

 to any promise, in any ad? 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 145 

 H e r e are at least a few of them. Once vou get the feel of 

 using them, you'll probably develop a whole armorv of vour own. 

 1. T h e Inclusion Question 

 Designed to permit immediate identification with vour storv. 

 To show the prospect that you're talking about him —not about 

 someone else who would answer No to the question. Therefore, 

 once he's identified with the questions—once he's made his first 

 agreements with you and placed himself in the Yes-answer group— 

 then your recommendations will have special meaning for him. 

 This is perhaps the most direct wav of building agreement 

 at the beginning of the ad. It's used everv day. For example, in 

 this advertisement—highly successful—for a book called The Art 

 of Selfishness: 

 ASK YOURSELF THESE NINE QUESTIONS 

 1. Do you find it increasinglv difficult to cope with 

 the world around you. . . . 

 2. Is your business or career a source of annoyance 

 and frustration. . . . 

 3. Are you tormented by inadequacies, fear and em-

 barrassments in your sex life. . . . 

 And so on. 

 2. D e t a i l e d Identification 

 Another device used at the beginning of the ad, to establish 

 immediate, and deep, agreement between the reader and the 

 copy. Here, instead of asking questions to set up your Yes-train, 

 you detail symptoms or problems that are your prospect's reasons 

 for desiring your product. Thus, again, your reader knows that 

 vou are talking about him —that vou "have been there vourself"— 

 and therefore that your recommendations will help answer these 

 problems, his problems, that you have catalogued so well. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 4 6 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O E B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CRADUALIZATIOX 

 For example, in this ad for a course to improve the prospect's 

 child's grades in school: 

 Let me explain. I don't care whether your child is six 

 years old or twenty—boy or girl—in grade school high 

 school or college. It makes no difference how badly that 

 child is doing in school today—how difficult it is for him 

 to concentrate . . . how poor his memory mav be . . . how-

 much a prisoner he is of crippling mental habits . . . how 

 terrified he mav be of mathematics, or grammar, or social 

 studi es, or even the hardest science course. 

 Of course, here—as in the Inclusion-Question—vour copv 

 must be accurate. You must know enough about the reader's 

 problems to make every word you write ring true. If vou don't, 

 you'll shatter your believability-net, and he'll simply' turn the 

 page. 

 So—before you write—research. Learn to know vour cus-

 tomer. This is alwavs the essential first step, in anv kind of copv 

 3. Contradiction of Present (False) Beliefs 

 Again, used at the beginning of the ad. And again used to 

 prepare a foundation for strong claim-statements that the reader 

 might never accept raw. Here, you come bluntly out and say, "I 

 know you think this is true; but I'm going to show YOU it's false." 

 Best used, of course, in conjunction with strong authority strong 

 enough to contradict present (unpleasant) beliefs, and get away 

 with it. 

 For example, in an ad for cosmetics invented by a famous 

 plastic surgeon: 

 From this moment on, forget everything you have ever 

 heard or read about what age "must do" to your appear-

 ance. Forget anything you have ever believed about how 

 "old" you must look at thirty . . . forty . . . fifty . . . or even 

 sixty. . . . 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 1 4 7 

 H e r e vou are not looking for agreement as much as you are 

 for a loosening of previous beliefs. You are saying that the old 

 limitations are passing, and your next paragraph should be your 

 first introduction of your positive claims, in somewhat the same 

 way that this ad goes on: 

 Because—starting with this moment—you are about 

 to enter into a new world of beautv! A world where ordi-

 nary fruits are transformed into anti-wrinkle cosmetics. 

 Where a. . . . 

 And so on. 

 4. The Language of Logic 

 So far, the devices we have discussed have been used to 

 build belief at the beginning of vour ad—to serve in the crucial 

 transition from vour headline to the stream of intensified prom-

 ises that vou are going to use to close the sale. 

 We have discussed the process of intensifying desire in 

 C h a p t e r 7. We now turn to the simultaneous, and equally im-

 portant, task of maintaining belief in each new statement as you 

 present it. 

 H e r e again, your objective is to build belief at the same exact 

 time that vou build desire. To do this, you interlace each new 

 promise tcith language-signals that show that it logically follows 

 from everything that has been proved before. And that it there- 

 fore can be believed without hesitation. 

 What are these language-signals? They are, of course, the 

 vocabulary of logic. They are the words we use when we reason: 

 when we argue; when we prove our point in anv discussion, and 

 force others to agree with us that we are right. 

 They are among the most powerful words in the English lan-

 guage—for the verv simple reason that they give the flavor of 

 conviction to the promises into which we weave them. 

 These words have been used for centuries in court, in politics, 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 148 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 

 in science—even in that most-loved form of American fiction, 

 detective stories—to show others that proof has been offered. 

 that reason has been used, that one statement logically and in-

 evitably follows from another. 

 Therefore, after centuries of conditioning, the words them-

 selves—regardless of the content of the statements to which thev 

 are attached—now carry conviction. Therefore, thev should be 

 woven throughout your ad, wherever thev logically apply. 

 For example, let's look at some individual lines, in a num-

 ber of different ads. Let's see how each of these words (which 

 I'll italicize) gives a tone of reason and logic to those sentences 

 in which they're incorporated. 

 For example, in the famous Sherwin Codv ad: 

 Why do so many find themselves at a loss for words 

 to express their meaning adequately0 The reason for this 

 deficiency is clear. . . . Most persons do not write or speak 

 good English simply because thev have never formed the 

 habit of doing so. . . . 

 Or, in this ad for a book on how to manage difficult people: 

 Take, as an example, the man who hahitualhj refuses 

 to follow your instructions. There is a basic, underlying rea- 

 son for this. Mr. Given shows you how to find that reason 

 and then explains the means of correcting it. The whole 

 solution can be surprisingly easy once you hate realized the 

 underlying causes. . . . 

 Or, for a book on learning how to learn: 

 . . . but simply by putting your LOCKED-UP LEARN-

 ING POWERS to work—today— as easily and logically as 

 this. . . . ' " ' 

 And so on. There are dozens of such phrases for vou to use. 

 Among them are: 

 "This has been proved In/ thousands. . . ." 

 "Sound impossible? Not at all. It's actually as 

 simple. . . ." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION 1 4 9 

 "Here's whtj. . . ." 

 "And, most important of all. is the fact that. . . ." 

 "Therefore . . ." 

 "This was, without a doubt, the most thorough. . . ." 

 "Thev discovered — in case after case —that. . . ." 

 This, again, is the language of logic. It is a language equally 

 as filled with emotion as the language of desire. Interwoven into 

 your promises, so subtly that the reader never even notices that 

 it is there, it gives vour claims the invaluable air of conviction. 

 5. Svllogistic Thinking 

 Now we go from the language of logic to the mechanisms 

 of logic. This is the role that reason plays in your ad. This is the 

 moment when you prove that your product works, through the 

 mechanism of logical reasoning. 

 For example, in one of the most successful automotive ac-

 cessory ads of all time, the copywriter wanted to prove that his 

 spark plug was superior to the ordinary plug—even though it 

 costs twice as much. Since the point of difference was simply 

 that his plug delivered a larger spark, the copywriter built up his 

 case in this way: 

 Your car runs because gasoline is fed into the cylin-

 ders where a spark causes it to fire. This action causes the 

 gas to explode . . . this explosion pushes down the piston. 

 Now here is the important thing to you. The larger the 

 spark is, the more powerful the explosion. The more pow-

 erful the explosion, the more power you get from your 

 gasoline. 

 Poor explosion means wasted gas—loss of power, poor 

 getaway, bad starting, a sluggish car. 

 Good explosion means more miles per gallon—more 

 horsepower; a more exciting car to drive! 

 Notice the power of these three simple paragraphs. Power 

 derived as much from their underlying formal structure as from 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 5 0 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CRADUALIZATION 

 their claims. One statement inevitably leads into another. Even-

 word is logical. There is a constant process of equation: spark to 

 power, power to performance. Size equals power—and his plug 

 delivers the largest size. 

 Such structure—and the copv based on such a structure— 

 develops the feeling of inevitability. The reader feels that the 

 product must work. He has not onlv been told it works; he has 

 been shown proof that it works. 

 Such structure—though hidden behind the words it clothes 

 itself in—is actually a physical entity. You can seek it out of hun-

 dreds of ads, if you look beneath the words themselves. You can 

 trace it, codify it, and then repeat it. Once learned, it becomes 

 a powerful tool in selling hundreds of products. 

 We will explore these structures in more depth in the next 

 two chapters—on Redefinition and Mechanization. 

 6. Other Belief Forms 

 Once you grasp the fundamental idea that form—structure— 

 determines believabilitv, then all sorts of opportunities open up 

 to you. You realize that simply by the arrangement of i/our claims, 

 you can add to their believabilitv. 

 For example: 

 Contingency Structures —such as "If. . . then . . .", or "Wis 

 y o u r . . . t h e n . . . . " 

 Repetition of Proof: Echoing —such as "These experts 

 found. . . . These experts found. . . . These experts found. . . . " 

 Promise — Belief — Promise Variation. Where every sentence 

 of promise is followed (ideally) with another of proof, or verifi-

 cation, or documentation. So that the reader never has the breath-

 ing space to question. 

 Paragraph Parallelism. Where the same word structure used 

 in an accepted statement is then picked up exactly, and used to 

 borrow acceptance for a fresh claim. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATIOX 1 5 1 

 There are manv more, of course. Some are words, some are 

 chains of reasoning, some are merelv the physical arrangement 

 of the copy on the page. 

 All have the same objective. To gain continued acceptance. 

 To prevent rejection. To build conviction. Belief is the goal. 

 Now let us look at some other methods of reinforcing it. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 10 

 THE FOURTH TECHNIQUE 

 OF BREAKTHROUGH 

 COPY: REDEFINITION 

 How to Remove Objections to Your Product 

 Time and time again, you are 

 going to have to sell a product that has built-in handicaps. That— 

 along with its promises and its functions—also has certain aspects 

 to it that actually repel the prospect. 

 No product, of course, is perfect. If only for the reason that 

 he must pav money for what you have to sell, your prospect starts 

 with a basic minimum of resistance against buying your product. 

 But this resistance is intensified by certain drawbacks in some 

 products, often to the point where—unless you take definite ac-

 tion in your ad to redefine them—these drawbacks will actually 

 kill your sale. 

 Let us now look at the three general categories of drawback, 

 and then at the three types of redefinition that eliminates them. 

 First, of course, there is the product that is (or that sounds) 

 too complicated—too hard to use. 

 153 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 5 4 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 

 Second, there is the product that is not important enough— 

 whose basic appeal doesn't have a statistically broad enough 

 market. 

 And third, there is the product that just costs too much. Its 

 price is so much above the price of other products in its class 

 that people simply turn away when it's mentioned. 

 It's amazing how many products fall into one or all of these 

 categories. Fortunately, the same mechanism—redefinition—helps 

 you deal with all three. 

 Redefinition is the process of giving a new definition to your 

 product. It says that the product is this rather than that. Its ob-

 jective is to remove a roadblock to your sale—if possible, before 

 the prospect even knows it exists. 

 Perhaps the classic case of redefinition is that of Lifebuov 

 soap in the Thirties. Lifebuoy was a good soap that did a good 

 cleaning job. But it had one overwhelming drawback—a horrible 

 medicinal odor. 

 Since the odor couldn't be removed without removing the 

 clet amng power, the problem became one of redefinition. Put sim-

 ply: how do we change this odor from a liability into an asset? 

 The answer, of course, was the famous B.O. campaign. The 

 prospect's attention was focussed on the odor of his own bodv— 

 an odor which he was told would drive away people (and which 

 does). 

 He was then told this odor must be eradicated—not with an 

 ordinary soap, which was not powerful enough to do the job 

 but with a soap with the odor-destroying power to make a long-

 shoreman acceptable at a society ball. Lifebuov was this super-

 powerful soap. And the overwhelming proof—that von could smell 

 the m o m e n t you opened the wrapper— was the strong medicinal 

 odor built into every cake. 

 This is the simplest, and often the most effective kind of re-

 definition. A simple concept-judo. A complete reversal. Turning 

 a liability into an asset, with a single idea. 

 W h e r e v e r you can use this flip-flop method, do so. But most 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E OF B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N lOO 

 problems of redefinition are more complicated, and d e m a n d more 

 complicated means of dealing with them—using many of the de-

 vices we have just examined in the process of Gradualization. 

 Let us now turn to these devices, and see how they can pre-

 sent an entirelv different image of the product to the prospect 

 than vou would have imaginetl, had you not thought them through 

 beforehand. 

 1. Simplification 

 Our first category is the overcomplicated product—the prod-

 uct that sounds too hard. To see how to replace this image with 

 a more favorable one, let's look again at the Television Repair 

 Book ad that we discussed in the last chapter. 

 As vou remember, the original ad for this product failed be-

 cause it promised "Do your own TV repairs" in its headline. This 

 was considered too difficult by the average set owner (even though 

 the ad said "It's easy, its simple, it's quick" in the next paragraph). 

 Therefore—since the ad confronted the prospect with the fact 

 that he would have to make repairs before it made those repairs 

 easy and simple and quick—he simply- turned the page and tuned 

 the ad out. 

 The second ad did not discuss repairs. It discussed break-

 downs and expenses. And, as we have seen, it spent its first sev-

 eral paragraphs showing that these breakdowns and expenses did 

 not have to occur at all, if the sets were given the proper care. 

 Up to this point, the ad has talked about the prospect's 

 world—and compared it with a far more promising world where 

 expert care produces trouble-free TV viewing. Now the two worlds 

 must be joined through the product. 

 This joining is called by the pitchman, "the turn." It is a 

 transition of great delicacy. It must be accomplished without a 

 jar. In this ad, it begins in this paragraph: 

 And most important, these experts have discovered 

 that vou do not have to be a handyman or a mechanic in 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 156 

 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 

 order to coax this performance out of vour set! Here's 

 why. . . . 

 We have already seen how the repetition ( . . . these experts 

 have discovered . . . ) and the paragraph parallelism tie this state-

 ment into the stream of belief that has been built up before it. 

 Now, however, we are going to look at this same paragraph from 

 another point of view—to see how it provides the first step in 

 eliminating any fear of making your own repairs. 

 Notice, of course, that the very fear of the average owner. 

 that he is not a repairman, is here brought out in the o p e n -

 specifically stated— but now framed as a promise. 

 Notice too that there is no mention of the word, "repair," at 

 this point. It is still too early at this point. Though the average own-

 er might be willing to accept the idea that he could "coax" better 

 performance out of his set, it would still be too much to ask him 

 to believe that he could make repairs on that set at this point. 

 This leads to the final step. The ad must now redefine what 

 the reader thinks of when he hears the word "repairs." It must 

 now lay a new foundation of feet—showing that almost all the 

 repairs the owner will have to make are actually only minor ex-

 ternal adjustments. 

 It now proceeds to do this, in the following three paragraphs 

 which we have already studied in the last chapter, and which we 

 will now look at again to see the second process of p e r s u a s i o n -

 redefinition—which is also occurring in them. 

 H e r e are the paragraphs again: 

 Five Minutes a Week for Perfect Reception. 

 These TV experts have discovered that vour TV set is 

 a great deal like vour body in this respect—that it gives you 

 warning signals before it has a major breakdown.' For'in-

 stance, after your set was installed, 'it probably plaved per-

 fectly for the first week. But then it began to suffer from the 

 vibration, the jarring, the interference of other electrical ap-

 pliances in your home. The picture might suddenly begin to 

 flop over or flicker—lines may appear on vour screen. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 1 5 7 

 Now—and this is important—if you had the knowl-

 edge to quickly make a few minor adjustments, on the out-

 side controls of vour set. then vou could correct those symp-

 toms. you could keep that set playing perfectly, and you 

 could prevent major breakdowns in exactly die same way 

 thev were prevented in these manufacturers' tests. 

 If you do not have this knowledge . . . if you do not 

 make these adjustments, then your set will weaken, you 

 will get a consistently bad picture, and you will have to call 

 a repairman. 

 Now, what occurs in these four paragraphs is actually a re-

 definition of the term, "repairs" in the reader's mind. This is done 

 in three separate, but integrated, wax's: 

 1. By immediately comparing the television set to the human 

 body, and therefore minor maladjustments in the set to warning 

 signals given off bv the body before it becomes seriously ill. 

 By "making this comparison, the copy relates the intricate, 

 technical working of a television set to something as commonplace 

 and familiar as the running nose that warns you of an approach-

 ing cold. Because of this comparison, some of the mystery of the 

 set is explained away; and the owner gains a new feeling of con-

 fidence in dealing with it himself, as something he understands. 

 And, at the same time, this comparison distinguishes be-

 tween the relatively rare major breakdowns, and the far more 

 frequent minor maladjustments, which he can now treat himself 

 as easily as he'd take a cold tablet to stop his running nose. 

 2. 'By continuously describing these minor maladjustments 

 as 'warning signals" and "symptoms" rather than "breakdowns" 

 or "repairs." This makes them sound easily corrected— -before real 

 trouble, which might require technical skill and complicated tools, 

 can develop out of them. 

 3. And finally, by stating outright that these minor adjust-

 ments can be corrected by "making a few minor adjustments, on 

 the outside controls of your set." 

 Therefore, "repairs" are redefined as "adjustments." Troubles 

 on the TV screen are redefined as 'warning signals" or "symp-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 5 8 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 

 toms." And "repair calls" or "breakdowns" are carefully segregated into the least-likely-to-occur 5% of all possible TV troubles. 

 Therefore, with this redefinition in mind—with this reorgan-

 ization of facts accomplished by the copy— there is no longer any 

 reason for the average set owner not to make his oivn minor ad- 

 justments, rather than pay a repairman to make them for him. 

 The objective has been accomplished. The ad can now go 

 on to specifically state how much monev the owner will save by 

 making these adjustments—and where he can buv the book that 

 tells him how. 

 In exactly the same way, whenever there is a process which 

 is difficult. . . whenever there is a product which is hard to use, 

 or difficult to apply—the copywriters first task is to simplify that 

 application in his prospect's mind. 

 This holds especially true for new inventions which actually 

 simplify processes which formerly were too difficult for the av-

 erage prospect. A new breakthrough is not merely accepted be-

 cause its manufacturer says so. Its claims for ease and simplicity 

 must be proved, in the ad, or the reader will simply shrug his 

 shoulders and say "it's just another copywriter gone wild." 

 Such a situation is one of the most frustrating experiences 

 you can have. Here is a product which vou know is far easier to 

 use than anything ever introduced in this field before— because 

 you've used it! But no matter how loud you scream EASY in your 

 ads, people just seem to ignore vou. 

 What do you do? The answer is twofold: 

 1. Redefine (as this chapter shows vou). 

 2. Mechanize the new simplicity (as you'll see in the next 

 chapter). 

 Remember, innovation without acceptance is valueless. The 

 more people know that something is difficult, and the more rev-

 olutionary (and therefore different) your product is—the more 

 resistance you will meet from them in accepting it. 

 You must, therefore, lay a base for acceptance by redefining 

 the entire field for them, before vou bring in vour product. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N l b 9 

 Let's look at one more example of such breakthrough ad-

 vertising, and see the solutions the copy offered that made the 

 product a success. 

 One of the great ads of all times, of course, is the Sherwin 

 Codv ad. Though most advertising men are familiar with the ad, 

 they do not realize that the course itself was a tremendous de-

 parture for the times—far easier and simpler than anything else 

 that had gone before. 

 But the prospects for such a course were absolutely con-

 vinced that good English was too hard for them. They had tried 

 to learn it before, and had failed. Therefore, any new course that 

 could be successfully sold to them would have to redefine En-

 glish for them . . . redefine mistakes in English for them . . . and 

 certainly redefine the process of turning; bad English into good 

 English for them. 

 T h e Codv ad is a masterpiece of Gradualization. It should 

 be memorized—not merely studied—by every copywriter. How-

 ever, within it, in four paragraphs, is contained another master-

 piece of breakthrough redefinition—from hard to easy with a few 

 simple ideas—that goes like this: 

 Onlv 15 Minutes a Day. 

 Nor is there verv much to learn. In Mr. Cody's years 

 of experimenting, he brought to light some highly aston-

 ishing facts about English. 

 For instance, statistics show that a list of sixty-nine 

 words (with their repetitions) make up more than half of 

 all our speech and letter-icritin<i. Obviously, if we could 

 learn to spell, use and pronounce these words correctly, 

 we would go far toward eliminating incorrect spelling and 

 pronunciation. 

 Similarly, Mr. Cody proved that there were no more 

 than one dozen fundamental principles of punctuation. If 

 we mastered these principles, there would be no bugbear 

 of punctuation to hamper us in our writing. 

 Finally he discovered that twenty-five typical errors in 

 grammar constitute nine-tenths of our everyday mistakes. 

 When one has learned how to avoid these twenty-five 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 6 0 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 

 pitfalls, how readily one can obtain the facility of speech 

 which denotes the person of breeding and education! 

 When the study of English is made so simple, it be-

 comes clear that progress can be made in a very short time. 

 No more than fifteen minutes a dav is required 

 Thus the complicated becomes simple—the hard becomes 

 easy. This is the first use of Redefinition. Now let's look at the 

 second: 

 2. Escalation 

 H e r e you are dealing with a product which works, and which 

 is acknowledged to be easy enough to use—but which simply 

 does not have an appeal broad enough to assure it of a mass 

 market. 

 Your job here is to escalate your product. To give it more 

 importance in your prospect's eves. 

 You do this again by Redefinition. You broaden the horizon 

 of benefits of the product. You redefine the role that the prod-

 uct pla\ s in the prospect's life. You widen the area of reward that 

 your product yields to the prospect—showing him that it enters 

 into dozens of vital situations every day, paving off for him where-

 he might least expect it. 

 For example, let's look at another ad for another English 

 course forty years later. By now people are not as sensitive to 

 their punctuation or grammar. Now the negative aspect has lost 

 its appeal; people want good English as a persuasion tool to win 

 over other people. 

 So good English must cease to be an end in itself. It must 

 be redefined, to become instead a means to a more important 

 e n d — o n e which is desired by far more people. And, since the 

 positive aspect must now be dominant, that part of good English 

 which lias the greatest value for persuading people—vocabulary— 

 must now be featured. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 1 6 1 

 H e r e is the ad: 

 Revolutionary new Word Power Machine makes you 

 a master of English overnight. 

 Automatically gives vou a power-packed vocabulary— 

 to make your ideas crackle with excitement . . . to hold oth-

 ers spellbound with the power of vour speech and your 

 written word. 

 Automatically spots embarrassing errors in grammar, 

 spelling, pronunciation vou didn't even know you were 

 making. Clears them up at once. Frees vour mind from 

 worrv . . . lets you feel at ease in am- company . . . gives 

 vou the blazing new self-confidence vou need to make any-

 body like you—to win people over irresistiblv to your point 

 of view. . . . 

 This approach redefines the benefits of the product, shifting 

 them from a less desirable area to one that will generate more 

 sales appeal. 

 But this use of escalation—to increase benefit appeal—is only 

 one of the ways it can serve vou. Another is to increase the im- 

 portance of the product—showing that something the prospect 

 wants very much hinges directh upon the performance of your 

 product. 

 For example, in an ad for spark plugs, this fact was pointed 

 out to the reader: 

 Yes. You pay $2,000 . . . 83.000 . . . $4,000 for your car. 

 And a single 99c part robs i/ou of the real power and en-

 joyment that car should give you. 

 Or here, in an advertisement for a speed math course: 

 If you want to get ahead f a s t . . . if vou want a posi-

 tion of real importance and responsibility— then a knowl- 

 edge of this kind of super-fast, super-accurate mathematics 

 is 'AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY for your future! 

 Or escalation can be used to show the prospect that your 

 product is not something to be put to work just once or twice a 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 6 2 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 

 week—but that it will be needed, and used, by him almost e v e n 

 waking minute. Here's how this was done, in a single sub head-

 line, in an ad for a course on handling people: 

 Your Entire Life is Spent Trying to Get Others to Do 

 What You Want—Without Fricti Oil: 

 You must agree with this statement. And therefore you must 

 redefine the importance to yourself of a technique which allows 

 you to accomplish the all-pervading task more easily, more ef-

 fectively and more rapidly 

 This is the second use of Redefinition—escalation. Now let's 

 look at the third. 

 3. Price Reduction 

 H e r e you have the product which, quite simply, costs too 

 much. Your job is to make that price seem less. You do it by a 

 very simple act of redefinition, like this: 

 Why does the product cost too much? Because it's being 

 compared icith other products in the same field. And how do you 

 whittle away, psychologically, at this price? Bij switching the com- 

 parison, and relating it to some other, more expensive standard. 

 For example, here is an enormously successful mail order ad 

 for spark plugs, which sold for $1.49 each, or one and a half 

 times the standard for the field, and twice as much as the dis-

 count price. Did the copywriter therefore sav that "Thev mav 

 cost a little more, but they're worth every cent of it." Of course 

 not. He made them cheap, and he did it in these two paragraphs 

 of psychological redefinition: 

 Up to now these extraordinary SA FIRE INJECTORS 

 were practically made by hand and would have to sell for 

 as high as $5 each. But we knew that 30 or 40 dollars was 

 more than the average driver could afford—so we decided 

 to get the price down so low that these injectors would pav 

 for themselves 12 times in one year of driving. So here is 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N l b . 3 

 inv astonishing proposition. If you will check your cars per-

 formance before and after you install your SA Fire Injec-

 tor System and then tell your friends and neighbors about 

 them, here is what I am prepared to do for TOIL 

 You can have a set of SA FIRE INJECTORS for the 

 year and model of your ear for only a fraction of their 

 value. If you act now they are only SI.49 each. . . . 

 Do you see how he does it? Do you see how many times 

 he does it in these two short paragraphs? As a last review of re-

 definition—because its techniques are so important to you—let's 

 just list the individual phrases that build up. again and again, the 

 feeling of value and bargain. 

 H e r e they are. Did vou catch them all? 

 "practically made by hand . . 

 "would have to sell for as hi^h as So each . . ." 

 "30 or 40 dollars . . ." (Notice that he repeats the hand-made 

 price twice. First he gives it to vou per plug; and then jor the 

 entire set. Thus the new comparative price is reinforced; you 

 practically wince at the $40 figure since vou want the plugs by 

 this time. And you're going to feel pretty good when he brings 

 in the now-lower figure in the next paragraph.) 

 "pet the price down so low . . ." (Here is the magic word, 

 "low"; now legitimatized in your exes by the description of the 

 hand-made set in the phrases that preceded it.) 

 "that these injectors would pay for themselves 12 times in 

 one year of driving. . ." (Not only value, but reward. Not only 

 low-priced, but gas-saving. And again, the comparison to a higher 

 figure—this time the money you'll save on gas.) 

 "astonishing proposition . . ." (Now the price becomes so low 

 that the mere statement of it may cause you surprise. It may 

 sound slightlv cornv as we dissect it here, but it is incredibly ef-

 fective in the context of the ad. And most of it—perhaps all of 

 it—is never consciously noticed by the prospect. He simply re-

 alizes that he feels that a bargain is being offered to him.) 

 "If you will check your car's performance. . . and tell your 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 6 4 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 

 friends and neighbors about them . . ." (The introduction of a con-

 dition—an action you must perform—in order to get the now-

 low price. Used before in the last chapter in a different context: 

 here we see how the same device works again to substantiate. 

 with equal power, the feeling of value.) 

 "prepared to do . . ." (Again the connotation of favor, of al-

 lowance, of discount.) 

 "You can have . . ." (Not, "You can buy." He is letting vou have the plugs at the low price. Again, he is doing vou a favor. 

 You are getting a bargain.) 

 "only $1.49 each . . ." (The classic modifier. The tenth bargain-

 phrase in these two paragraphs.) 

 Notice how similar Gradualization and Redefinition are. No-

 tice how each operates below the surface of the conscious mind. 

 Gradualization by its structure—by its arrangement of facts and 

 phrases. Redefinition by its rearrangement of perspective. 

 Each is an extremely subtle and powerful wav of building 

 belief. Each deserves much more study than we can give it in 

 this book. 

 Let us now turn to some equally powerful but more appar-

 ent mechanisms that also build belief. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 11 

 THE FIFTH TECHNIQUE 

 OF BREAKTHROUGH 

 COPY: MECHANIZATION 

 How to Verbally Prove That Your 

 Product Does What You Claim 

 As we have observed repeatedlv, 

 good advertising copy exists simultaneously in two different places. 

 Part of that copy is words on a page. Or sounds carried by 

 radio waves. Or pictures and sounds coming out of a television set. 

 But the other part of that copy—the crucial part—takes place 

 in your prospect's brain. It is the series of reactions—planned re-

 actions and anticipated reactions—that your copy causes in his 

 mind and his emotions. 

 Actually, when your prospect reads your copy, he is engag-

 ing in a silent dialogue with you. You are feeding him ideas and 

 images and emotions, in a planned pattern; and he is feeding 

 back to you reactions to these ideas and images and emotions. 

 You hope—you plan—that these reactions will be favorable. 

 165 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 I b b F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: M E C H A N I Z A T I O N 

 That they will be controlled reactions. That he will see the im-

 ages you are projecting. That he will understand and agree with 

 the ideas that you are advocating. That he will share the emo-

 tions you are suggesting he feel, and even embellish and inten-

 sify them. 

 But also, at the same moment, vou must be aware of the 

 fact that—included among these reactions—are also a n u m b e r of 

 inevitable anticipations, or demands, or questions on his part. And 

 you must answer these questions or vour copv will fail. 

 What are these demands he is going to make from time to 

 time on your copy? Basically they fall into three classes: 

 1. Demands for more information, more image, more de-

 sire. You have whetted his appetite; now you've got to satisfy it. 

 He is saying to vou: "Tell me more." 

 2. Demands for proof. He knows he wants it; now he wants 

 to know that it's true. He is telling you: "Oh veah? W h o savs so?" 

 3. Demands for a mechanism. He knows he wants the end 

 result; now he wants to know how you're going to give it to him. 

 He is saying: "How does it work?" 

 To write good copv, you have to play a dual role. At the 

 same time, you have to be copywriter and prospect. You have to 

 develop an almost foolproof sensitivity to these inevitable reac-

 tions. You have to know the exact point that they are going to 

 come in. You have to anticipate them. You have to switch copv 

 direction, fill in the wanted material, at the precise point that 

 your prospect loses interest in one t h e m e and demands the other. 

 This is one of the most difficult parts of writing copv, and 

 the exact spot where many good ads break down and lose their 

 prospect. And—since such anticipation points occur several times 

 in a single ad—you will find yourself working over the same para-

 graph of "unimportant" copy hour after hour. All vou know is 

 that at this point something went wrong—at this point vour 

 prospect is dissatisfied. 

 We will discuss these problems of copy direction . . . antici- 

 pation points . . . etc. in Chapter 14, on Interweaving. At this 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: M E C H A N I Z A T I O N 1 6 7 

 point, however, let's look more eloselv at the third demand: the 

 demand for Mechanism. 

 Verbal Proof 

 This is the vital question: "Hoiv does it work0" Your prospect 

 is asking you here to give him a mechanism. He likes what vou 

 promise—he wants what vou promise—but he has to be con-

 vinced that your product can aetuallv give it to him. 

 You have to demonstrate vour product, in words, logically, 

 so that he can understand exactly H O W it gives him the end re-

 sult you promise. 

 Since the beginning of advertising, of course, the eopv that 

 furnishes this information—that provides this mechanism—has 

 been called "Reason YVhv" copv. Claude Hopkins was its master. 

 But there have been few great selling ads of anv period that do 

 not use it to convince their prospect that their product actually 

 works. 

 In fact, the basic question vou must ask yourself, about this 

 device, when you sit down to write a piece of copy, is not, "Should 

 I use it?" Or "Should I build a mechanism into this copv?" But 

 simply: "How much?" 

 How much mechanism does this copv need? This, of course, 

 depends—as so many other things in vour cop}'—on the State of 

 Awareness of your prospect. Is he familiar with the mechanism 

 by which this product works? Does he accept it? If so, then this 

 part of your job is done for vou. Other advertisers have spent 

 their money to make this mechanism familiar to vour prospect. 

 Stage One: N a m e the Mechanism 

 You ma}' now take advantage of their investment bv simply 

 naming the mechanism, and going on to beat them with your 

 price or other features. 

 For instance, in the conventional camera ad, to back the 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 168 FIFTH TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION 

 headline claim, all that you'd have to do is name your mecha-

 nisms, like this: 

 TAKE FOOLPROOF PHOTOS 

 WITH THE XENOPHON 1750 

 With Electronic Light Setter. . . Push-Button Zomar 

 Lens . . . Magazine Load . . . Only $135. 

 Here, the three mechanisms which insure the perfect pic-

 tures are simply named, and not described at all. The prospect 

 is already familiar with the way they work from the other ads he 

 has seen, and any further detailing of their nuts and bolts would 

 simply bore him. Therefore, you name them in as bold type as 

 possible, and go on to compete with your price. 

 Most catalog copy and retail copy needs to assume only this 

 abbreviated form. It deals with products which are already known, 

 and whose mechanisms are already understood and accepted. 

 Therefore, any further wordage on these points would only be 

 wasted. 

 But now we come to that vast array of products whose mech-

 anism cannot simply be named. Why? For two basic reasons: 

 Stage Two: Describe the Mechanism 

 1. Because the prospect doesn't understand their mechanism 

 And 

 2. Because everybody else has the same mechanism, and the 

 same promise, and the same price. And the market is getting 

 tired, and you need a new way to compete. 

 Let's look at the simplest case—case #1—first: 

 Here your mechanism is not so well known, or not known 

 at all, and you can't simply name it. You have to go into more 

 detail; you have to describe it. 

 So you have the classic situation of Promise—Reason Whv. 

 You build a strong, quick promise—and then you follow up with 

 the reason why you can deliver that promise. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: M E C H A N I Z A T I O N 

 169 

 This one-two punch of promise and reason whv is as old as 

 advertising itself. Here, for instance, is how Rinso used it in 1926. 

 First thev give the promise, like1 this: 

 Who else wants a whiter wash—with no hard work? 

 How would vou like to see vour wash come out of 

 a simple soaking—whiter than hours of scrubbing could 

 make it! 

 Millions of women do it everv week. Thev've given 

 up washboards for good. ThevYe freed themselves forever 

 from the hard work and reddened hands of washdav. 

 Now thev just soak—rinse—and hang out to drv! In 

 half the time, without a hit ol hard rubbing, the wash is 

 on the line— whiter titan ever! 

 Notice how the original promise in the headline has been 

 taken and intensified in these first thi'ee paragraphs of copv. The 

 promise is repeated, in different words and from different per-

 spectives, over and over again in those first three paragraphs. 

 But notice too that—as the copv builds desire—it also builds 

 a growing reaction on the part of the woman reading it. This re-

 action can be expressed in one word: "Hoic?" This promise sounds 

 better and better . . . it begins to sound too good to be true . . . 

 now she needs reassurance fast. 

 So the whiteness claims stop. The copv shifts direction—and 

 now begins to sell the mechanism, like this: 

 Dirt floats off—stains <jo. 

 The secret is simplv Rinso—a mild, granulated soap 

 that gives rich, lasting suds even in the hardest water. 

 Just soak the clothes in the ereamv Rinso suds— 

 and the dirt and stains float off. Rinse—and the wash is 

 spotless. 

 Even the most soiled parts need onlv a gentle rub be-

 tween the fingers to make them snowv. Thus clothes last 

 longer, for there's no hard rubbing against a board. 

 Notice, first of all, that this mechanism—the suds that float 

 off dirt—is sold just as hard as the whiteness storv it is brought 

 in to prove. The first rule of mechanism copv is that it is not 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 7 0 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: MECHANIZATION 

 scientific discourse. You must never allow it to become dull, or 

 merelv factual. You must load it with promise, load it with emo-

 tion. Every word in good copy—including mechanism copy— 

 sells. Only in these paragraphs, the copy is selling a secondary 

 claim (dirt floating off) that proves the primary claim (a whiter 

 wash). But still—it sells. 

 Secondly, of course, you'll immediately notice how simple 

 the mechanism is in this 1926 copy, as compared with the same 

 field today. In those days it was enough to mention the facts that 

 the suds floated off the dirt; the reader accepted, as an evident 

 truth, the fact that they would do so. 

 Today, of course, in our much more sophisticated and ex-

 ploited market, she would no longer do so. Todav vou would need 

 far more mechanism. You would have to explain more, promise' 

 deeper, perhaps even invent a miracle ingredient to do the work 

 for vou. 

 Stage Three: Feature the Mechanism 

 Which brings us to case #2 and the difficult problem of what 

 to do when vour market is highly sophisticated . . . when prom-

 ises sound alike . . . when price competition becomes suicidal? 

 This takes us back to Chapter 3, where we discussed market-

 sophistication from another perspective. H e r e we discovered that 

 mechanism—strong mechanism—saleable mechanism—is not onlv 

 a way to build belief, but may actually become so important to the 

 success of your product that you must put it into the headline. 

 These headlines are all mechanism headlines: 

 "FLOATS FAT RIGHT OUT OF YOUR BODY." 

 "FIRST WONDER DRUG FOR REDUCING." 

 "RUN YOUR CAR WITHOUT SPARK PLUGS." 

 "SHRINKS HEMORRHOIDS WITHOUT SURGERY." 

 "TOMMY ARMOUR SAYS SMACK HELL OUT OF 

 THE BALL WITH YOUR RIGHT HAND." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: M E C H A N I Z A T I O N 1 7 1 

 And hundreds more. Even/ one of them offers i/oti a new 

 way to get what i/ou've been wanting. A NEW7 WAY: a new mech-

 anism; a new chance to satisfy your desire—even if everything 

 else vou've tried has failed vou. 

 Mechanism, therefore, can he inside vour ad, to prove vour 

 main claim, or on top of the ad. elevated bv the state of your 

 market to becoming the main claim. 

 If people assume that thev know how vour product works. 

 or if vour claim is so new that thev don't care, then all the mech-

 anism you need can be summed up in a word or a phrase. 

 If people are not quite sure how it works, describe the mech-

 anism— in selling language —until thev have enough reason-whv 

 to believe vou. 

 If you have, however, an exceptionally strong or dramatic 

 mechanism, or if you want to establish definite superiorih" to 

 other competing products, then sell hell out of that mechanism. 

 We'll see some expert examples of how to do this in our next 

 chapter, on Concentration- when we're sliown how to compare 

 your product with the rest of vour field. 

 On the Importance of Mechanism W h e n You Want 

 to Convince Your R e a d e r That You're 

 Giving H i m a Bargain 

 One of the sad truths of our time—and profession—is that 

 our readers do not always beliexe the truth when we tell it to 

 them. Everv copy writer has had. at one time or another, a per-

 fectly marvelous product that just couldn't be sold—because people 

 wouldn't believe that it could do what he knew it could do. 

 In the same way manv manufacturers, and their agencies, 

 are startled when thev cut a price—advertise the reduction—and 

 see no increase in sales. 

 What h a p p e n e d ? No one believed them. A price cut—like 

 a product advantage—is only as good as vour words, and vour 

 strategy, makes it. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 7 2 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: M E C H A N I Z A T I O N 

 Price cuts must be justified. There must be a reason for 

 them. A mechanism behind them. Without such a mechanism— 

 without such a reason-why you should give this bargain—you are 

 going to get only a fraction of its real sales power. 

 The great master of price-cut mechanization was Robert Col-

 lier. His book— The Robert Collier Letter Book —is one of the 

 great classics of copvwriting know-how. H e r e is just one example 

 of how Collier made his price-cuts, not only believable, but 

 dramatic: 

 Before the Price Goes Up! 

 Dear Sir: 

 A short time ago one of the old, reliable mills that 

 makes the finer qualities of woven Madras for shirts began 

 sending out S.O.S. calls. 

 They had kept their plant going steadily for months, 

 thinking that the usual demand would easily take care of 

 their excess output. 

 But, with the weather so generally unseasonable, the 

 usual demand didn't materialize. And there thev were, heav-

 ily overstocked—and needing money. 

 If we would take all their surplus stock of the finer 

 grades of woven Madras, amounting to a quarter of a mil- 

 lion yards, they offered to let us have them at wav below 

 any price we had ever paid for shirtings in all our years in 

 business—at far less than they could make the materials 

 and sell them for today. 

 We took them—the whole quarter-million yards—at a 

 tremendous savings in cost. . . . 

 A Bargain You May Never Get Again. . . . 

 Let me point out the difference between this logical. 

 carefully-prepared introduction to the price slash, and a simple. 

 bare a n n o u n c e m e n t of that slash. H e r e , the copy writer not onlv 

 emphasizes bargain over and over again, but brings in qualiti/ 

 as a counter-desire time after time. He thus uses a mechanism 

 within a mechanism: (1) the unseasonable weather causing (21 

 the factory to become overstocked resulting in the primary mark-

 down—to build belief upon belief. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: M E C H A N I Z A T I O N 

 173 

 H e r e the copv starts with the mechanism, and onlv goes into 

 the bargain claims six paragraphs later. Again, he has taken the 

 Creative Gamble: in this case, that he could hold the reader's in-

 terest for those six paragraphs. And. because of this gamble, lie 

 reaps ten times the believabilitv for e v e n word he said about the 

 bargain-value of his offer from that point on. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 12 

 THE SIXTH TECHNIQUE 

 OF BREAKTHROUGH 

 COPY: CONCENTRATION 

 How to Destroy Alternate Ways for 

 Your Prospect to Satisfy His Desire 

 As vou know, in the final analysis, 

 no successful copy ever sells a product. It sells a way of satisfy-

 ing a particular desire. And its power to sell ultimately comes 

 from the intensity of that desire. 

 If the desire is commercial—that is, if it is shared by masses 

 of people, and if each of these people want that satisfaction enough 

 to pay the price required for a mechanism to satisfy it—then it 

 is highly probable that many firms will try to deliver that mech-

 anism, or product, to them. 

 The almost universal condition of commercial life is compe-

 tition. No one who sells am'thing, of course, can avoid it. As you 

 write, one eye is fixed on your market, and the other on your 

 competitors. 

 We have described in this book several different ways of 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 7 6 S I X T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CONCENTRATION 

 beating competition. Let's stop for a moment and review them: 

 First, of course, is superiority of product. This is the ulti-

 mate weapon in the war for the consumers dollar. If you pro-

 duce the best product, your advertising has a hundred times the 

 chance of success than if you produce only a fair product. Most 

 great ads have been associated with great products. Most great 

 copy claims come from the assembly line. If vours does not. if 

 your copy is better than your product, then send it to vour client 

 instead of your prospect, and tell him to make it a reality. 

 But even the best product needs equally as effective cop\ 

 to induce people to try it. Otherwise, the excessive cost of get-

 ting the first purchase may drive the product off the market, be-

 fore the repeat sales can build up high enough to earn- it through. 

 So we come to our second weapon to beat competition—su-

 periority of promise. A stronger promise, that evokes more de-

 sire. A wider promise, that causes more people to buv. A more 

 believable promise, that brings in the skeptics as well as the sus-

 ceptible. This entire book has been a blueprint for developing 

 such promises. 

 Third, we have the weapon of product-role. The role the 

 product allows its consumer to plav. The personality, the identi-

 fication, the prestige, the status, the excitement vou can bring 

 out of your product, or graft onto it. 

 Fourth, we have response and reaction as a competitive 

 force—the ability to one-up the competition: to escalate claims 

 when necessary; to shift mechanisms; to invade new markets. 

 And fifth—the technique we will discuss in this chapter—is 

 direct attack. 

 Direct attack—the mechanism of Concentration— differs 

 completely from the other four methods we have discussed above. 

 All these techniques have the common element of ignoring the 

 competition. They concentrate on your storv, ,/our proniises^/o//;-

 benefits, your product. They act as though'there is no other win-

 possible of gaining the satisfaction your prospect desires. 

 Therefore, they are most effective when vou dominate a 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: C O N C E N T R A T I O N 1 7 7 

 field, when vour primary problem is to protect your customers' 

 lovalty against the claims of your competitor, or when your story 

 is so powerful, so different, or so fresh that the competition has 

 nothing to match it. In these cases, it's better not to give him 

 the prestige of attack, not to mention his claims or his product, 

 even invidiously, in the space which costs you such a dear dollar. 

 But in many other cases—especially where your advertising 

 budget is much less than his—especially where the bulk of your 

 prospects are already customers of his—your first problem may 

 be to crack his image, to shatter their loyalty, before you can 

 rechannel their desire around to vou. 

 What Concentration Is 

 But this process of Concentration —this careful, logical, doc-

 umented process of proving ineffectual other ways of satisfying 

 vour prospect's desire— is much more than mere attack. If you 

 can only attack another product — without showing at the same 

 time, by comparison, how your product provides what the other 

 lacks—then say nothing at all! Never attack a weakness unless 

 you can provide the solution to that weakness at the same time! 

 The reason for this is simple. Your prospect knows that your 

 attack is biased. If, therefore, you are attacking another product 

 onlv for your own good—in other words, to win the sale by dis-

 paraging your competitor—what you will probably evoke in his 

 mind is skepticism and dislike, and very little else. 

 But—and this is the critical point in this process—if you can 

 show your customer that this attack is for his own good, in his 

 sendee, because your product will eliminate this weakness, then 

 you have a sales story he will accept. Then you will make him 

 question even the most ingrained loyalty. 

 Concentration, therefore, is the process of pointing out weak-

 nesses in the competition . . . emphasizing their disservice to your 

 prospect . . . and then proving to him that your product gives him 

 what he wants without them. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 7 8 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CONCENTRATION 

 Notice that all the techniques that we have developed in the 

 last few chapters are used here. Intensification to show the penal-

 ties of continuing with the old product. Gradualization to show 

 the logical cause of the weaknesses and how thev can now be 

 cured. Mechanization to prove that your product removes the 

 weakness. And so on. 

 Concentration is therefore a complicated process, taking up 

 sizable space to do its job properlv, and combining almost every 

 trick you have learned in this book. To see how incredibly ef-

 fective it can be, however, let us look at two masterful examples. 

 The first is our spark plug ad again. As vou remember, in 

 the copy, the copy writer has told his prospect that he can run 

 his car without spark plugs, that he can get more gas mileage 

 and more power if he puts "fire injectors" into his car instead of 

 the old-fashioned plugs. 

 Now he goes on to: 

 1. Provide the mechanisms which prove his own claim; and 

 2. To destroy the prospect's confidence in plugs forever, in 

 this brilliant piece of interweaving copy: 

 MECHANICS AND ENGINEERS 

 READ THIS CAREFULLY 

 And for you mechanics and engineers let me tell vou 

 why fire injection must give vou these results. 

 A spark plug jumps a spark of electricity across an air 

 gap. This is the most wasteful and power consuming wav 

 to get electricity from one place to another and it limits 

 the size of the spark. 

 Afire injector fires on the surface of an electrical con- 

 ductor This is the most efficient wav to get a big power-

 ful spark into your cylinder. 

 On ordinary spark plugs the air gap between the elec- 

 trode and the firing point is always getting bigger because 

 the electrode is always burning awav. This means vou have 

 misfiring which means loss of power plus wasted gas plus 

 raw gas to damage the cylinders and piston rings. On fire 

 injectors there is no air gap and no electrode to burn away. 

 That means maximum gas explosion which means full 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: C O N C E N T R A T I O N 

 179 

 power, full economy and no raw gas to wash away the oil 

 protection from cylinder walls and pistons. 

 A spark plug accumulates filth and carbon because oi 

 inefficient firing. This means vou need regular cleaning, 

 setting and expensive replacement! 

 A fire injector never needs cleaning or setting. It ac-

 tually- "breaks in" and becomes more efficient with use. It 

 will actually outlast your car, delivering maximum efficiency 

 without servicing or replacement. 

 A spark plug gives you a thin skimpy spark that ac-

 tually blows out under pressure of less than 120 pounds. 

 A fire injector gives you a heavy powerful flame that 

 will not blow out at pressures far heavier than those cre-

 ated bv even the highest compression engine. . . . 

 With ordinary spark plugs you are using, or should 

 he using premium gas which costs from 4 to 8 cents more 

 than ordinary gas, and despite this you're getting ineffi-

 cient, wasteful gas consumption. 

 With fire injectors regular gas will give you up to 8 

 more gas miles per gallon, up to 31 more horsepower, plus 

 easier starting in all weather. Add these savings together 

 and see for yourself whv I sav that fire injectors will pay 

 for themselves every single month that you drive your car. 

 Ordinary spark plugs have to he replaced regularly. 

 In some of the new high-compression cars, a set of plugs 

 will burn up in a couple of months. 

 Afire injector installation is guaranteed for the life of 

 your car without cleaning, servicing, or replacing. 

 These are some of the reasons that the U.S. Air Force 

 pays premium prices for surface supported injectors for 

 their aircraft and why vou will ultimately find fire injec-

 tors in all automobiles. . . . 

 Let's See H o w He D o e s It 

 I hope that by now you have spotted many of the techniques 

 he uses to gain his effects . . . to build the overall power of this 

 sequence. Let's just check off a few of them right now: 

 First, of course, is the interweaving contrast. A weakness in 

 the operation of the spark plug is pointed out, and then immedi-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 8 0 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CONCENTRATION 

 ately counteracted by the benefit the injector gives you. Bad— 

 good; bad—good; bad—good: this is the underlying structure of 

 this sequence. 

 But this is only one use he makes of parallelism. He repeats 

 words to contrast the inherent weakness of the plug with the in-

 herent strength of the injector. "A spark plug jumps a spar*. 

 "Afire injector fires on. . . . " Spark is a weak word; fire is much stronger visually And he later intensifies this contrast of image 

 by saying: "A spark plug gives you a thin skimpy spark. 

 against "A fire injector gives you a heavy, powerful flame " 

 You can picture the difference. 

 Throughout the copy, definition and re-definition take place. 

 Spark firing is the "most wasteful and power consuming way" as 

 opposed to "the most efficient way to get a big powerful spark." 

 Misfiring means "loss of power plus . . . ," while maximum gas ex-

 plosion means full power, full economy. . . ." (Notice the parallel 

 sentence structure here sharpening the contrast.) 

 And, in a beautiful image, the fire injector actuallv "breaks 

 in"—a masterpiece of redefinition by analogy. 

 Of course, almost every benefit has its documentary- mech-

 anism. The air gap in ordinary plugs gets bigger "because the 

 electrode is burning away." The spark plug gets dirtv "because of 

 inefficient firing." And so on. 

 Let me point out again the general structure of this sequence 

 It is: * 

 Bad. 

 Good. 

 Bad. 

 Good. 

 Bad. 

 Good. 

 And so on. It thus offers repeated, direct, one-for-one con-

 trast. It explores a number of performance factors of vital inter-

 est in the prospect—showing the bad and then the good side of 

 each of them. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: C O N C E N T R A T I O N 1 8 1 

 A Second Strategy 

 This is one way of accomplishing your Concentration. But, 

 of course, it is not always feasible, because the points you wish 

 to contrast mav not be so easily and clearly broken down, one 

 bv one. You may be dealing, instead, with a time sequence—a 

 recurring, unpleasant experience with which the prospect is fa-

 miliar, and which you wish to sharpen before you provide him 

 with the antidote. 

 In this case your Concentration copy would adopt a differ-

 ent structure. Something that looks more like this: 

 What happens to you now. with the product or products you 

 are using presentlv. 

 What will happen when vou switch to the new product. 

 H e r e is such a structure, for an ad selling a reducing pill. 

 Let's look first at the negative copy: 

 For years doctors have known that ordinary reducing 

 plans—that vou pay S5, $10 and even 815 for in the stores— 

 are completely passive! That they depend strictly on your 

 own will power—on vour ability to starve that fat off your 

 bodv. All that these ordinary reducing plans are able to 

 give' vou . . . for vour $5 or 810 or S15—are HUNGER-

 APPEASING PRODUCTS—pills, powders and liquids that 

 do nothing more than swell up in your stomach—that do 

 nothing more than "dull" your hunger a little. 

 But not one of these products could do anything to 

 ACTIVELY help you reduce your weight. To take the strain 

 off that starvation diet. To actually help vou BURN UP 

 that uglv fat. . . OXIDIZE that fat. . . MELT IT AWAY— 

 FOREVER! 

 So what happened? If you were overweight, you strug-

 gled to do the job of reducing BY YOURSELF! You took 

 vour hunger-appeasing pills religiously. You pushed away 

 the foods vou love. You spent week after week of torture. 

 And finally, if vou were lucky; you carved off 5, 10, or even 

 12 precious pounds. 

 And then your will power snapped! You broke your 

 terrible diet. You discovered that your little pills were use-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 8 2 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CONCENTRATION 

 less to keep you away from the foods vou loved. And the 

 fat flowed back—heavier and uglier and more deadhj than 

 ever before! 

 Again, let's glance at the means the writer used to get his 

 total effect. b 

 In the first and second paragraphs—Definitions and Redef-

 inition. Ordinary reducing plans are passive. They depend on vour 

 own will power. They can do nothing to actively bum up fat. 

 And in the third paragraph, the equating of taking ordinarv 

 reducing pills with "doing the job of reducing yourself." 

 ^ Next, logic—cause and effect. Given the acceptance of these 

 definitions by the reader, the third and fourth paragraphs become 

 a logical necessity. This tone of cause and effect is conveved in 

 the phrase: "So what happened?" 

 Now, of course, the third and fourth paragraphs condense 

 an experience which is all too common to everv woman who has 

 ever tried to reduce. She has lived through this herself, time after 

 time. She recognizes each of the symptoms. And so she finds her-

 self nodding her head, agreeing with each in its turn, building 

 up a stream of acceptances which carries more and more con-

 viction as she finds her own experiences more and more thor-

 oughly described. 

 And then, at the climax, in the last line of the fourth para-

 graph, the destniction of the old methods of reducing is complete. 

 Notice the use of the word "And" to tie this final indictment in 

 structurally with the stream of sensory experiences that have gone 

 before it. There is no doubt that the fat has come back again in 

 this woman's life—if it hadn't, she wouldn't have read this much 

 of the ad. But here the inevitable implication buried in a sentence 

 with which no woman could disagree—is that it icas the failure 

 of the pills that caused the failure of the diet. 

 Thus the stage is set for the hero-product to emerge. It has 

 already been foreshadowed in the second paragraph—in the neg-

 ative accusations that these ordinary methods can do nothing 

 "actively" to "burn awav" fat. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CONCENTRATION 1 8 3 

 Now the copv goes on, from failure to promise, like this: 

 And so vou tried another passive plan. And another. 

 And another. And then if vou were like the men and women 

 whose fantastic case histories w ere reported by leading med-

 ical journals—perhaps vou went to vour doctor and asked 

 him for an easy way out — without torture — and without 

 sliding hack! 

 These doctors had the answer in a tiny grey pill—and 

 a common-sense plan. 

 In their hands—so tinv that thev could balance it on 

 the tip of their little finger—was perhaps the greatest 

 weapon ever discovered against deadlv, excess fat. It was 

 a miraculous compound called LECITHIN—brand-

 new—whose amazing fat-dissolving properties had been 

 discovered bv a Nobel prize winner—the co-discoverer 

 of insulin. . . . 

 Because this product was perfectly safe—and as easy 

 to take as an aspirin—main had used it themselves when 

 they wanted to lose weight. . . . 

 Thev were not given am starvation diets . . . thev never 

 experienced a single hungry moment . . . they reported, in 

 case after case, that thev felt more pep. more energy, more 

 youth and vitality than thev had known in years! 

 And then, dav after dav faster and easier and safer 

 than thev had ever known before, the ugly excess fat around 

 their bodies melted awav! While thev were eating three de-

 licious meals a dav, thev were shedding as much as 5 pounds 

 a week. While thev were feasting on mouth-watering 

 steaks. . . . 

 And so on. Right back into Intensification copy, with its strong 

 picture-image sell. 

 H e r e are vour contrast—vour mechanization—your docu-

 mentation—your reference to authority—and then your return to 

 promise, in the form of case history, which now has many times 

 its original power, based on both the elimination of alternate chan-

 nels of fulfillment, and the strong supporting mechanism which 

 documents its claims. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 184 

 SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CONCENTRATION 

 One Final Word on Concentration 

 I have purposely chosen extreme examples to illustrate each 

 mechanism. These copy blocks are longer than Concentration 

 need logically be. The same effect may be boiled down into two 

 or three sentences, or even a single phrase, as in this classic 

 headline: 

 "SHRINKS HEMORRHOIDS WITHOUT SURGERY." 

 Here is contrast—implied weakness in other products—com-

 pensating promise in vour own. 

 Again, it is not the content, nor is it the length of copy used 

 in a mechanism that makes it effective. It is simply and solelv 

 the problem it solves for you in the development of your copy— 

 by the emotional reaction it produces on your reader when he 

 encounters it. 

 If, in this case, vou have caused him to question a habit . . . 

 shift a lovalty . . . take a chance on your product—you have done 

 your job, no matter how few or how many words vou have used 

 to do it. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 13 

 THE SEVENTH 

 TECHNIQUE OF 

 BREAKTHROUGH COPY: 

 CAMOUFLAGE 

 How to Borrow Conviction for Your Copy 

 We have now discussed five sep-

 arate wavs to build believabilitv into vour copv. I do not think 

 we should leave this subject without at least mentioning one other, 

 entirely different, approach—that oi borrowing believabilitv from 

 all the places in our society where it is stored up. 

 The process bv which vou do this is quite simple. As vou 

 know, people do not bin' a newspaper, or a magazine, or anv 

 other medium of communication for its ads at all. They buv this 

 publication—or thev turn on their radio and television set— to 

 keep in touch icith the world around them; to learn what's hap-

 pening, and whv it's happening. To be entertained, or enlight-

 ened, or simplv kept up to date. 

 Now, when a person chooses one of the publications (and 

 for a moment we'll disregard radio and television), he does so 

 because he believes that that publication is telling him the truth. 

 He has faith in that publication. He believes in it. 

 185 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 8 6 S E V E N T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CAMOUFLAGE 

 And, as long as he has faith in that publication (as any space 

 buyer can tell you) it remains an excellent medium for advertis-

 ing—because some of his trust carries over from the editorial 

 pages to the advertising pages. He simply assumes that his pub-

 lication wouldn't carry the ad if it weren't true. 

 And, on the other hand, when he loses faith in that publi-

 cation, the effectiveness of its advertising just goes to pieces. If 

 he no longer believes in the publication, he won't believe in the 

 advertising it carries. This factor—the believability in the medium 

 itself—I think is a far more important consideration in buying 

 space than mere circulation. 

 All this is of vital interest to the space buyer, of course, but 

 we have to go a step further. You see, not only does this reader 

 come to believe in the publication which he buys repeatedly, but 

 after a while he becomes used to receiving his tmth couched in 

 the style and format and phraseology of that particular publication. 

 In other words, a conditioned reflex has been formed here. 

 The man believes in the publication. The publication phrases its 

 material in a certain way. After a while, that phraseology begins 

 to carry an aura of truth all by itself no matter what material 

 it embraces. 

 Thus, you have waiting for your ad—if it is adapted the right 

 way—a stored believability. A believability reflex. Which you can 

 tap by adopting this particular publication's phraseology when you 

 address its audience. 

 Let's Look at a Few Examples 

 I'll try to show you the three different ways you can borrow 

 this built-up believability: 

 First, of course, and most obvious, is Format. Each publi-

 cation has its own look. You have your copy. Your job is to merge 

 both of them into a combination that will: 

 1. Allow the reader to enter into your ad with the least 

 possible mental shifting of gears from "editorial" to "advertise-

 ment." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 S E V E N T H T E C H N I Q U E OF B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: C A M O U F L A G E Vr> I 2. Carrv along the greatest possible amount of believability 

 through every sentence of the ad. 

 I have not discussed layout in this book, because I do not be-

 lieve layout is nearly as effective as copy in determining the re-

 sults of your ad. Here, however, layout is important. A single change 

 in format can add 50% to your readership, and your results. 

 Your job here, once again, is to approximate as closely as 

 possible the format of the medium in which you are advertising. 

 This means, ideally, letting them set vour ad . . . using their kind 

 of headline-to-body-copy transition . . . using their illustrations, 

 their sub heads, their break-up of space. 

 On the following pages are two ads for the same book on 

 handling people. The first is an all-purpose, house-set magazine 

 ad that was shotgunned over twelve or fifteen media. It was mildly 

 successful. 

 The second is the same ad. adapted feature for feature for 

 the Wall Street Journal. It was enormously successful—so much 

 so that it has been repeated i at the time of this writing) nine-

 teen times, once a month, with no drop-off in pull. 

 Let's look at the changes that give this adapted format such 

 continued believability: 

 1. The headline, set by the journal in journal type. There 

 is no difference between this old-fashioned, upper-and-lower-case 

 headline and any other headline in the editorial content of this 

 issue. Therefore, it does not immediately signal the reader: "This 

 is an ad: beware!" To have made it bolder, or more modern, or 

 in all caps, would simply diminish its effectiveness. 

 2. The sub headlines—two of them, one following directly 

 on the other. Verv Nineteenth Century, really. Abandoned years 

 ago by 99% of all American newspapers. But the Journal uses it, 

 and therefore the ad uses the same treatment. And the very fact 

 that it is so unusual, and so old-fashioned, makes its adaptation 

 that much more belief-carrying in this context. 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1S9 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 190 

 S E V E N T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: C A M O U F L 

 A(.I 

 3. The two bars directly above and below the first sub head 

 O n e of those small touches that defines individualitv. T h e ac 

 would lose some of its atmosphere without them. And atmo-

 sphere (believabilitv, trust) is what you're seeking with these 

 adaptations. 

 4. The placement of subheads to the extreme left of the col-

 umn. Another minute detail. Bad lavout according to the a^encx 

 art director. But again, in perfect harmony with the format of 

 the editorial content. 

 5. The line drawing of the author. An uglv rendering. Far 

 less attractive than the photograph of the same man in the mag-

 azine ad. And yet the Journal does not use photographs of the 

 men they picture in their editorial columns. And so this ad must 

 do the same, even at the cost of harrowing screams of pain from 

 its authors (until they see their rovaltv checks). 

 Thus, what has been done by these adaptations, is that a 

 corny, old-fashioned, rather ugly advertisement has been devel-

 oped for this specific medium—which has about twice the be-

 lievability, twice the pulling power, and twice the staving power 

 of the same exact copy and illustration presented the mass-

 produced wav. 

 Is it worth the extra cost? Yes. Should it be done for each 

 important medium in turn? Yes. 

 Why? Because in so doing, you are tapping the ingrained 

 trust that the reader has for each medium in turn, and channel-

 ing at least part of it, unconsciously, onto vour product. 

 This, then, is the first method of borrowing this built-in be-

 lievability: adopting format. 

 The Second Way to Borrow Believabilitv 

 The second—slighth- less specific—is adopting phraseology. 

 This method stems from the fact that certain media, or classes 

 of media, use certain stereotyped phrases over and over again, 

 which after a while take on a believabilitv of their own. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 S E V E N T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CAMOUFLAGE 1 9 1 

 In newspapers, to take the most obvious example, there is 

 usually an issue date, a city of origin, and perhaps a by-line. Each 

 of these news-indicators may be picked up by the copv writer to 

 add believability to his opening, as in this extremely successful 

 example: 

 SKIN S P E C I A L I S T D E M O N S T R A T E S 

 HOW TO RINSE AWAY YOUR BLACKHEADS 

 Bv Claire Hoffman 

 New York, N.Y.—A leading doctor today 

 showed an audience of men. women and skin-

 troubled teenagers how to clean oily skin and 

 shrink enlarged pores with a lO-minute home med-

 ical treatment he has perfected. . . ." 

 And so on. The news tone has been set by the opening phrases. 

 The entire remainder of the copy has been given the atmosphere 

 of a report rather than a sales story by these first few sentences. 

 T h e same principle can be used for each of the other classes 

 of media vou employ. In direct mail, look for the key cor-

 respondence your prospect receives that are opened instantly 

 without exception. Some examples would be refund checks, gov-

 ernment correspondence, dividend notices, confidential reports, 

 high-priced newsletters, etc. 

 In radio and TV, adopt the news format and the news phrase-

 ology'. Even, if possible, adopt the news "sound"—the clipped 

 phrase of the newscaster, the insider tone of the analyst, the doc-

 umentary feel of the news, hand-held camera. 

 Study the channels of communication that people believe in. 

 Adopt their tone, their feel, their style, their sincerity. Make your 

 ads blend in, so there is no jarring transition. Camouflage them. 

 Believability-Borrowing Strategy #3 

 In a later chapter, we'll deal with mood directly. However, 

 as the last m e t h o d of borrowing believability, I want to mention 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 1 9 2 SEVENTH T E C H N I Q I E OK BHKAKTIIROl•(;H COPY: CAMOl IT,A(.l 

 two mood adaptations that rightly belong j„ this discussion. 

 We've seen that you borrow vour publications format and 

 your publications phraseology or stvle. These two methods ol 

 adding confidence to your copy depend directly on the particu-

 lar medium you are using at am particular moment. 

 You pick up that publications appearance and idiom, as it 

 were, because people have come to contrast that editorial man-

 ner of presentation with ••advertising language" in general and 

 because they automatically trust the first, and automatically ap-

 proach the second with an ingrained skepticism. 

 In other words, advertising language, which is .mite naturalK 

 biased language and emotionally-charged language, tends to pro-

 duce a counter-reaction in its prospects bv its verx appearance. 

 To overcome this instant and automatic skepticism—besides 

 borrowing our host publications idiom—we also have two other 

 idioms which allow us to escape the -hard-sell" s t e r e o h p e . 

 The first is Understatement. Simplicity. A l a c k ' o f color 

 words. Fewer adjectives than the reader would expect \o su-

 perlatives. Short sentences, that fall rather than rise in tone at 

 their end. 

 For example, take any Volkswagen ad. Count the number of 

 nouns p e r sentence, and compare it to the number of adjectives 

 See how the ad kids itself—never takes itself too seriously No-

 tice how it makes its point quietly, and them stops. Even how the 

 extremely short, extremely simple- sentence structure adds to the 

 reeling of sincerity. 

 H e r e is a complete Volkswagen ad. which features one su-

 periority of the car over competitive models. Could ,,ou have told 

 the storv as well, ex-en if you used ten times as many words? 

 You never run out of air 

 You also won't have am worries about draining or 

 Hushing the radiator in spring. Then- is no radiator. " 

 Or hoses. 

 Or water pump. 

 Or rust. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 S E V E N T H T E C H N I Q U E O E B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CAMOUFLAGE 1 9 3 

 And so there are no worries about anti-lreeze in the 

 fall or cracked blocks in the winter. 

 If vou feel that vou owe vour Volkswagen engine a 

 little something special every spring and fall, you can do 

 this much. 

 Just run it once around the block and let it air itself out. 

 This is great copv because of its simplicity and its image and 

 its sell, all of which interact to give a very powerful argument to 

 anvone looking for a new car. 

 Also, I'd suggest that vou study any of the old Claude Hop-

 kins ads, or John E. Kennedy if'rom the old Lord & Thomas days) 

 to get the same power of sincerity without the limiting whimsy. 

 Or the great radio and TV pitches of the Fifties. 

 T h e r e is little advertising being written this way, and its very 

 raritv makes it even more effective. It will not solve every sell-

 ing problem, but where it is effective—especialh* in continuous 

 campaigns—it is very effective indeed. 

 T h e second mood vou mav employ to break away from the 

 "advertising" stereorvpe is what 1 call Deadly Sincerity. This is 

 the technique of leaning over backwards to point out the flaxes 

 in an offer, so that the benefits, when you bring them in, will be 

 believed that much more deeply. 

 Since this is not done in ordinary advertising—since ordi-

 nary copv does not knock its product as well as praise it—it car-

 ries great emotional impact, especially in highly-competitive fields. 

 H e r e is an example, for a book on getting ahead on your 

 job, which had to run after a hundred books on the same sub-

 ject had already appeared in the same publication: 

 TO THE MAN WHO WILL SETTLE FOR NOTHING 

 LESS THAN THE PRESIDENCY OF HIS FIRM 

 And who is willing to make the incredible sacrifices 

 necessary to get there in the shortest possible time. 

 Here is the most realistic handbook ever written for 

 vou—and vou alone. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 LU4 S E V E N T H T E C H N I Q U E OF B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CAMOUFLAGE 

 This is a private advertisement. 

 It is not meant for ninety-nine men out of everv hun-

 dred. These men do not have the drive—the impossible 

 pride—the absolute compulsion to succeed that this ad-

 vertisement demands . . . 

 And so on. You can see immediately, in the first few para-

 graphs of this ad, how the tone of utter frankness is set. The use 

 of such "non-advertising phraseology" as "incredible sacrifice". . . 

 "impassible pride". . . "absolute compulsion". . . "this advertisement demands" set the ad off from the others around it—give it 

 an air of unpredictability that induces the reader to go on. 

 In our next chapter when we discuss Reinforcement, we shall 

 see how this tone of complete fairness, and even criticism, can 

 make a comparatively minor claim take on immense emotional 

 impact. But for now it is sufficient to point out that this is one 

 more way to break out of the hard-sell stereotype, and gain al-

 most the same type of believability that would be given to a fac-

 tual report. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 14 

 THE FINAL TOUCHES 

 Let's now review what we've done 

 up to this point, and the last few problems that we have to con-

 sider. 

 We started this book with the idea that there was a definite 

 technique that could produce better headlines than the ones you 

 were using yesterday. And. since the headline is so vitally im-

 portant to the success or failure of vour ads, we devoted the first 

 part of our book to this creative search. 

 Then, in the second part, we investigated the equally im-

 portant problem of how to exploit that headline. How to lead the 

 prospect from the feeding of interest and curiosity that your head-

 line had aroused in him, into a constantly mounting conviction 

 that this product has what he wants, and that it is absolutely ca-

 pable of giving it to him. 

 You use body copy to accomplish this second objective— 

 perhaps a lot of it, perhaps very little. In either case, we've 

 examined the three interlocking paths by which this effective 

 demand is created: first, the intensification of desire; then the 

 creation of an acceptable product personality- or role with which 

 195 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 196 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 the prospect will want to identify; and then the rather abstract 

 structure underlying your copy arrangement that produces be- 

 lievability of vour story. 

 So now we Ye seen how to reach out to your prospects mind 

 on all three emotional lex-els: Desire . . . Identification . . . and 

 Belieyabilirv. 

 Now, as our last problem, we have to put all tliese elements 

 together. We haxe to take all these promises, these images, these 

 devices, these structures—and weave them together into one co-

 hesive unit, that holds your prospect's attention from beginning 

 to end. 

 In other words, having broken down the ad to analyze the 

 elements that make it work—we now have to deal with the re-

 verse problem: tying it together once again. 

 We have several additional devices that help us do this. We Ye 

 already touched on them in passing in previous chapters. Now 

 let's examine them more closely see what makes them operate. 

 formalize them into working rules. Like this: 

 Verification—How to Offer Authorities and Proof 

 Now, of course, comes the most obvious kind of believabil-

 ity copy. Your proof: your statistics; your tests; vour testimonials: 

 your authorities; vour trends; vour documentation; vour seals of 

 approval; your awards won. Any fact at all that vou can use, any-

 where in the copy, to show that your product does what vou sax-

 it does. 

 The key words here are anyichere in your copy. Because, as 

 I hax-e tried to shoxv in the last four chapters, the placement of 

 your proof is as important to its overall effect as the content itself. 

 I can't tell you anything about gathering proof that xour oxxn 

 research department doesn't knoxv a hundred times better. Or, if 

 you have no research department, that good hard digging won't 

 give you. 

 There are no special rules to phrasing proof—except, perhaps, 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 1 ^ ' 

 to keep it as short as possible, as dramatic as possible, as specific 

 as possible. 

 And, above all. r e m e m b e r that proof copy, like every other 

 word in vour ad, is selling copy. It cannot merely offer proof 

 alone. It must offer the kind of proof that makes the prospect 

 hungry to read everv word of it. and it must make him want the 

 product more and more at the end of every line. 

 Fine. But the next question is: where do you place the proof 

 in your ad? At what point or points will it be most effective? 

 And, next, how manv different proofs or tests or testimoni-

 als or what have vou should you include in the ad? W h e n do you 

 put them in. and when (if ever' do you leave them out? W h e n 

 do thev make the ad too heavy? When do they make it dull0 

 W h e n do thev make it too much to be believed? 

 We have been discussing these questions, though not in this 

 context, for the last four chapters. For the last four chapters we 

 have been discussing the placement and structure of claims, of 

 promises. We have found that the more you prepare for those 

 claims, and the more agreeable vou have made your reader to 

 accepting them, the more powerful they become. 

 T h e same exact rules hold for vour proof. Proof — like claims — 

 is most effective ichen the reader unconsciously demands it, and 

 when he is reach/ to accept its content as necessary and logical. 

 This is the rule. As simple and concrete as this. All the rest 

 is application. 

 We've gone over, quite carefullv, the four processes that de-

 termine position in vour ad. They are, once again: 

 1. Gradualization —the development of a stream of accep-

 tances from vour reader to vour statements, leading finally to an 

 inevitable demand on the part of that reader for your product. 

 2. Redefinition —the removal of preconceived objections on 

 the part of vour prospect toward your product, by providing him 

 with a new definition of that product. 

 3. Mechanization —the verbal proof that your product 

 works—that it does what vou sav it does. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 198 

 THK FINAL T O U C H E S 

 4. Concentration —the verbal proof that other alternate

 ro

 pr d 

 e 

 nets do not do this essential function as well. 

 Now, every one of these processes is effective, not onlv in 

 increasing the believability of vour claims, but also in increasing 

 the believabilitv of vour proof. 

 And, in exactly the same wav, in everv one of these pro-

 cesses, there is a place for your proof to appear where it will do 

 twice as much good for your copy as it would aimvhere else. 

 For example, go back and look at the Concentration copv in 

 the spark plug ad that we analvzed in Chapter 12. H e r e was a 

 point-after-point comparison of the weaknesses of spark plugs 

 contrasted with similar strengths in fire injectors. 

 At the end of this sequence, the writer had built up tremen-

 dous believability. He could have done manv things with that 

 believability. He could have switched it into an immediate re-

 statement of his main claims. He could have channeled it di-

 rectly into asking for the order. He could have gone into a monev 

 back guarantee, etc. 

 Instead, he chose to pile proof upon believabilitv in this wav: 

 "These are some of the reasons that the U.S. Air Force pai/s 

 premium prices for surface supported injectors for their air- 

 craft . . . ." 

 And, in so doing, strengthens the power of both the believ-

 ability copy that went before, and the authoritv-reference that 

 now follows. 

 Thus, and we'll take this up in greater detail in the Rein- 

 forcement section that follows, in copy 1 + 1 can often equal 10. 

 By adding one powerful piece of copv—at preeiselv the right mo-

 ment—to another, you can get an overall effect far greater than 

 these two pieces of copy would ever produce, if thev were just 

 spread out all over the page. 

 Position increases power. We continue to find new examples 

 ot this ever\- time we explore another copv process. 

 And how about the other three processes? How does vour 

 proof interact with them? 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 199 

 Well, take Gradualization. Study the TV Repair Manual ad 

 again. Notice the exact point that the '"manufacturers test rooms" 

 are brought into the copy— at the very moment that the reader 

 is begging for some sort of solution to the problems that the copy 

 has intensified over and over again. 

 Here, at this point, the reader is searching for an answer. 

 Here the exact same proof which might be merely dull statistics 

 if it were presented earlier, suddenly takes on a sharpened drama— 

 because the reader now is fully aware of its importance, and is 

 ready to explore every word. 

 Again, I must repeat that the main problem with documen-

 tation is that it is inherently dull. Your job, therefore, is to add 

 excitement to it. You have to stage it. You have to develop a 

 drama, in your readers mind, into which your documentation en-

 ters as the hero. In which statistics suddenly become charged 

 with emotion— because you've made them the solution to what- 

 ever stands between your reader and the satisfactions that he 

 craves. 

 I could go on, and give examples of the interaction of proof 

 and each of the remaining mechanisms, but I think you would 

 gain far more bv doing it yourself. Instead, let me sum up by 

 saying this: 

 Documentation is any sort of proof—statistics, facts, tests, 

 etc.—that your product works. 

 Mechanization on the other hand (in case there may be a 

 confusion in your mind) is the verbal and logical demonstration, 

 and thus also proof, that vour product works. Mechanization does 

 not necessarily have to incorporate any outside documentation at 

 all to prove its point—it does this on the strength of its logic and 

 its structure alone. 

 Verification —which is different from both of them—is the 

 process of arranging your documentation within your copy so that 

 it gains the greatest immediate acceptance from your reader, and 

 has the greatest emotional effect on him. 

 Thus, I would suggest that you stop thinking of placing your 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 z u u T H E FINA L T O U C H E S 

 documentation only in the headline of vour ad, or in the sub-

 head, or in a separate box labelled. "Here's Proof." 

 I would suggest instead that you start thinking of documen-

 tation as one more element (along with promises, belief-words. 

 momentum-builders, image-sharpeners, emotion-definers, and all 

 the rest which we'll explore before we finish) to be interwoven 

 together, side by side—so that, combined, thev give vou far greater 

 emotional power and believabilitv than anv one of them could 

 separately. 

 R e i n f o r c e m e n t — H o w to Make Two 

 Claims Do the Work of Four 

 The first rule of all copy, of course, is that it produce an 

 emotional impact. As we have seen, over and over again, even in 

 believabilitv copy, even in documentation, every icord must carry 

 image, picture, feeling. 

 Now. the wonderful thing about emotional writing, of which 

 copy is one form, is this: That if you employ it skillfully, then the 

 impact of one emotion, plus the impact of a second emotion, will 

 often add up—non-mathematically—to the impact of F O U R 

 emotions. 

 In mathematics, one plus one alwavs equals two—never more. 

 In emotional writing, one plus one can often equal ten. In other 

 words, two emotional images, joined together in the right way- 

 can often have TEN TIMES the impact that either of these im- 

 ages has hi) itself. 

 For example, in the classic Avis campaign, the main theme 

 was "We try harder." Good by itself; but nowhere near as pow-

 erful as it became when it was reinforced by the reason why Avis 

 tries harder: "We're only second." 

 These two separate ideas: (1) We're second; (2) Therefore. 

 we try harder. —when they are combined, take on a joint impact 

 far greater than you could ever logically expect if vou simply ex-

 amined each one of them by itself. 

 In fact, we can even define one type of creativity as the 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T1IK FINAL T O V C H K S 

 201 

 ahiliitj to combine separate images into a new uiiiti/ that is much 

 more powerful than the mere logical sum of Us parts. 

 This is how new words are horn. As well as new phrases. 

 slogans, concepts, ideas. And. ot course, headlines. 

 Your job—and it's a tough one is to do just this, image bv 

 image, throughout the entire !>od\ cop\ ol vonr ad. 

 For example, in the ad lor "the man who will settle for noth-

 ing less than the presidency ol his firm'' that we quoted in the 

 last chapter, this sequence occurs: 

 This is John Horn's first book, lie is not an accom-

 plished writer, and it has Haws. II \OII read tor stvle. or for 

 literarv quality this is not \oiir book . 

 Bui there are jxirajraphs in liu\ hook — ideas in this 

 hook — whole chapters i>i this lnuik licit in here nerer seen 

 put down on paper liejore' \ud dial mai/ open doors to 

 (/on — tomorrow — thai olhrru i\< might take a lifetime of 

 waiting for i/ou to walk through! 

 Notice how the startling frankness of the first paragraph, 

 which goes out of its wav to call the reader's attention to flaws 

 in its product, serves as an intensifying contrast to the positive 

 claims of the second paragraph- -making them far more believ-

 able and therefore far more powerful to the reader who is now 

 convinced that he is receiving a fair report on this book. 

 It is the juxtaposition ol these two paragraphs—one follow-

 ing right on top of the other-- that makes their combination so 

 effective. 

 Copvwriting. in nianv phases, is the search for such juxta-

 positions. The last five chapters have been full of examples of 

 them. I suggest that vou go back and read these examples again, 

 and underline the combination points—and junctures—where one 

 claim blends into another, and either sharpens it, pours strength 

 into it. or makes it more believable. 

 So. one wav vou tie vour ad together is to constantly build 

 one claim on top of another— -alwavs seeking to make each stronger 

 and more believable bv the combination. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 202 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 This same principle applies in a smaller way in our next 

 device. 

 Interweaving — How to Blend Emotion, Image and 

 Logic Into the Same Sentence 

 Let me mention at this point a thought that has probably 

 occurred to you several times over the past few chapters: 

 The big trouble with analysis of the kind we've been doing 

 in the second part of this book is that after a while it begins to 

 sound quite mechanical. You've probably thought that I'm sug-

 gesting that you abandon any kind of creative flow, and work like 

 a sort of phrase-carpenter. Here you put in a promise; there vou 

 nail on a believability sentence; then cover both of them with a 

 good strong identification. 

 This is what it sounds like because it takes so long to iden-

 tify each one of these devices and show vou how to work them. 

 Because of this need for analysis—which always requires that vou 

 cut individual elements out of the "life-flow" of a growing ad— 

 it sounds like you should actually be conscious of each device as 

 you are using it to write that ad —even going so far as to name 

 the device as vou weave it in. 

 I don't think I have to tell you that this mechanical approach 

 is not my idea, and that it won't work. What I'm trying to do is 

 exactly the same procedure that a golf pro uses when he wants 

 to improve your game. He doesn't just let you go out and plav. 

 He stops you, makes you notice your hands, rationalize your grip. 

 shift your fingers, get used to the new feel of the club as you lift 

 it this new way, and then take a few practice swings—all at the 

 same time that he's telling you why you're doing it this way. 

 When you're swinging for the first few times, this new wav. 

 you feel pretty awkward, and you're conscious of everv muscle 

 in your arms. That's why he has you keep swinging —through one 

 bucket. . . two buckets . . . ten buckets of balls. 

 Pretty soon, though, those arm muscles are going to feel 

 comfortable in that new swing. And you're going to lose your 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 203 

 conscious awareness of them. At that point, what was mechani-

 cal before becomes intuitive now. But it's a new kind of intu- 

 ition—far more, skillful and effective than you had before. 

 This is the kind of intuition I'm trying to build in vou. I'm 

 trying to take you from Creatix itv #1 to Creativity #2. Both are 

 intuitive states, where you write from the full depths of vour 

 emotions as well as your mind, and when1 vou are no more con-

 scious of the mechanisms and devices that vou are employing to 

 gain your effects, than you are of the movements of vour fingers 

 on the typewriter kevs. 

 But, to get you from State #1 to State #2. 1 have to bring 

 all these details to consciousness—and make vou awkward in a 

 new and more effective wav than vou were when vou first learned 

 to write copy—so that you can take these insights and techniques 

 and bury them inside your own talent—so that vou can auto-

 matically employ them, without thinking about them at all. when 

 vou want to express most powerfully vour ideas, vour emotions 

 and vour sales philosophy. 

 This whole process of "New Awkwardness leading to New-

 Ability" is seen quite clearly in the very simple technique of In-

 terweaving, which I learned from a brilliant man bv the name of 

 Walter S. Campbell. 

 Every copy writer should read Campbell's book, Writing Non- 

 Fiction (The Writer, Inc., 1961). In the next chapter I'll list other 

 books you should have. But this is certainly one of the impor-

 tant ones that you can probably master in a weekend. 

 Campbell is talking about reporting and not copy writing, 

 but the structural principles are the same. He savs that even 

 in the most factual reporting, no sentence can be effective if it 

 contains only the facts alone. It must also contain emotion, 

 evaluation, impact—if those facts are to be given meaning and 

 importance to the reader. 

 The same is true for every sentence you write of copy. That 

 sentence should contain not only promise . . . not only image 

 not only logic—but as much of all three as possible. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 2 0 4 THE FINAL TOl'CIII> 

 Weave together your promise, vour logic, vonr emotion, vour 

 image. Pack vour sentences full of every one of them. Make them 

 blend into each other, till its almost impossible to pull out the 

 individual threads of the rich pattern of conviction and desire 

 vou're weaving. 

 For example, go back to the fire injector ad in Chapter 12. 

 and see how promise is interwoven in e v e n sentence of the be-

 lievabilitv copy where the injectors are being contrasted with the 

 old-fashioned plugs. In these two sentences, for instance: 

 "With ordinary spark plugs you are using, or should he using 

 premium gas (disadvantage) which costs from 4 to 8 cents more 

 than ordinary gas (disadvantage), and despite this (disadvantage 

 you're getting inefficient (disadvantage), wasteful (disadvantage1 

 gas consumption (disadvantage)." 

 Ill this first sentence, which is part of a logical sequence of-

 fered as proof of superiority through comparison of performance 

 characteristics, the copv writer has managed to insert six 

 disadvantage-images for the reader to r e m e m b e r the next time 

 he considers buying ordinary plugs. 

 Now the copv writer goes on to his contrasting sentence 

 about the injectors: 

 "Willi fire injectors regular gas (promise ) will give i/ou up 

 to 8 miles more per gallon (promise), up to 31 more horsepower 

 (promise), plus easier starting (promise) in all weather (prom-

 ise)." 

 Five promises in this second sentence. The packing in of 

 image upon image to build an overwhelming effect. 

 Or, as an even more complicated example, involving the in-

 terweaving of almost everv copv element in the book, let's look 

 at this sentence: 

 "And, most important, (a mood-builder, indicating the value 

 to the reader of the promises which are about to follow) these 

 experts (reference to authority to build believabilitv) liave dis- 

 covered (more believabilitv through the use of the scientific 

 idiom) that i/ou do not have to he a handyman (the core-promise1 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 2()o 

 or « mcc/wmr (restatement of the core-promise) in order to 

 coax (promise of ease) this performance (promise, condensing 

 all the claims of superior reception that have already been de-

 tailed in the previous copy) out of i/our set." 

 Now, is this done consciously1/Not at all. But the copy writer 

 knew the principle of i n t e r n e t in-r . . . |1U(I experimented with it 

 before . . . and had it stored axvax in Ins unconscious as one more 

 tool to be u s e d — i n t u i t i y e l y - t o urain the effect he wanted, at the 

 exact moment he needed it. 

 Try it yourself. See how mam different emotions you can 

 pack into a single sentence . . . paragraph . . . sequence. See how 

 much richer and more powerful xour cop\ becomes. How much 

 more you can say in the same space. H.m xou be-m to build re-

 i n f o r c e m e n t - m u l t i p l i e d i m p a c t - i n t o more and more of your copy 

 S e n s i t i v i t y - H o w to Give Your Reader What He D e m a n d s 

 Step In Step Throughout the Copy 

 Now; if you continue to pile promise upon promise, identifi-

 cation upon identification, documentation upon documentation el-

 ement upon element, where do you stop, Where does it become 

 too much? Where does the reader become satiated or bored and 

 want to go on to a new image or new promise, or even the close? 

 At what point are you starting to oversell? How do uou catch 

 yourself, and switch off? 

 We have already touched on this problem before in Chap-

 ter 11. I suggest that vou reread that discussion now. even though 

 we re going to expand on it at this point. 

 H e r e you are reiving on your own powers of empathy You 

 must be, at the same time, not only the writer of your ad but 

 its reader. You must anticipate that point in the copy flow--as it 

 is transformed into a series of impressions in your readers m i n d -

 where he is going to sax-: "I've read enough about this. Give me 

 this instead." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 2 0 6 T H E FINAL TOUCHED 

 And then vou must shift the direction of the copv to meet 

 his new direction of interest. 

 In other words, what we are talking about now is the over- 

 all structure of your ad. Not a sentence, or a paragraph, or a se-

 quence: but the architecture of the ad as a ichole. 

 Every ad has an architecture, as I'm sure YOU know. This is 

 the over-all pattern of the ad, including when and where and how 

 mam- times you shift from one t \ p e of copy to another. It is the 

 ability to recognize these shift points, and to change when YOU 

 encounter them from—sa\-—promise copy to mechanism copy to 

 documentation copy to promise copy again, that makes vour ad 

 stick together, or fall apart. 

 This is an almost impossible skill to communicate, since it 

 relies so much on the feel of each individual situation. However. 

 I can show it to YOU after it's occurred, in a series of four ads 

 on the same general type of product—books—and how each dif-

 fers from the others in the way large blocks of copy elements are 

 blended in and out of the oyer-all sell. 

 As IYe said before, I use mail order as m\ example because 

 mail order is the longest general form of copy, because it usu-

 ally sells the hardest, and because the techniques I'm talking 

 about are usually outlined most clearly in this type of copy. 

 Let's look at our four ads, and see how each approaches the 

 basic task of selling a similar product in a different way and with 

 a different blend of elements: 

 Sample Ad #1 

 This is the friend-winning ad we looked at in our last chap-

 ter. IYe indicated each major block of copy, in sequence, by a 

 letter of the alphabet; and each of the shift points b\- a number. 

 I am using as examples all direct-promise headlines. The 

 promise in this headline is almost universal (A): that vou can 

 make anybody like YOU. (See page 208.) 

 Instead of intensifying the promise immediately, however, as 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 207 

 many other ads in this category have done, this copv starts out 

 by restating the original headline promise (making anybody like 

 you becomes popularity) and by defining the previously unrec-

 ognized fact that this popularity can be taught. (B). 

 Why was this d o n e ? For two reasons: (1) because this novel, 

 almost paradoxical redefinition iCan popularity be purchased?) 

 established an i m m e d i a t e point of difference between this book 

 and the dozens of similar titles that had come before it 

 always a critical problem. And (2> because this ad's subject was 

 a teacher, and the ad's whole believabilitv rested upon the fact 

 that so many large and respected corporations had paid this 

 man so much money to reach these techniques to their em-

 ployees. 

 This is established by the ads first shift point and first tran-

 sitional sentence (1). This has hern proved by . , . leads directlv 

 into the first documentation block (.'•. in which the corporations 

 are named. 

 Thus we have the developing pattern of the ad as: 

 Promise 

 Definition 

 Documentation . . . 

 Right up to the next transition sentence (2), which brings in 

 the first detailed promise block iD). and which then echoes again 

 the documentation (E) and price comparison. 

 Now, after a brief transitional promise (F), the ad defines 

 again the importance of the over-all promise (G), backs it up 

 with a third r e s t a t e m e n t of the documentation (H), and then 

 states directly the price comparison and monev-back guaran-

 tee (I). 

 Then, with the classic transition (3), it goes on to devote the 

 rest of the ad to a detailed cataloguing of the promise (f). A 

 recitation of promises that are far stronger now—because of the 

 preparation of definition and documentation that has been laid 

 for them, than they would have ever been had thev simply been 

 put at the beginning of the ad without such preparation. 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 IO 

 It I» estimated that Dr 

 T h e B o o k T h a t T o o k 

 been paid over a million do 

 F o r t y Y e a r s t o W r i t e 

 How to Reach People 1 

 { the executives of such out 

 porations as National Cash 

 in the entire United S t a t e s , only o n e man 

 Sears, Roebuck & Co., The 

 teaches t h e s e techniques. His name is Paul 

 Who Really Count 

 & Pacific Tea Co., North Am 

 P. Parker, L.L.D. He has concentrated his 

 How to present your ideas to superiors in a 

 tion, Inc., General Motors C 

 1 entire lifetime in on e fietd—discovering the 

 way that automatically wins a c c e p t a n c e . 

 Kodak Co., Crane Co.. DuPo 

 best methods of winning people over to your 

 How to overcome favoritism. 

 tal Bakeries, General Mills 

 way of thinking, without anugomring them. 

 How to handle objections. Stop people from 

 Co., Borden Dairies, Coca- 

 Or. Parker believes that t h a t * methods are 

 saying no. Make it eaty for them to say y e s . 

 Co., StAndnrd Oil f A , Gor 

 How lo make a compliment twice as elfec- 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 210 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 Incidentalh', notice how the negative promises (K), and the 

 full list of documentation (L), have been placed out of the main 

 stream of the ad where they can be read, or not read, by those 

 that are interested in them. 

 Sample Ad #2 

 An ad for a book on improving the power of vour mind. 

 Again the promise-headline (A), intensified by—this time—an 

 elaboration of this promise (B). (See page 212.) 

 Now, using its first transitional sentence (1), the ad moves 

 into two paragraphs of negative (C) and positive (D) redefinition. 

 And then, with a single transition-word {Simph/ —2), again elab-

 orates the promise, making it stronger and stronger and more 

 and more detailed, and at the same time giving it the believabilitv-

 tone of definition. 

 This definition-tone is unchanged throughout (F), where 

 promise is again interwoven with fact, leading immediately into 

 a transition (3) in which the tone is that of proof, but the con-

 tent is straight promise (G). 

 Then this proof is connected (4) with the entire promise 

 catalog (H) which fills the rest of the ad. 

 This ad—enormously successful—is one of the best examples 

 of interweaving we have. There is so subtle a blending here of 

 definition, documentation and promise, that everv word of the 

 copy soon takes on the aura of pure fact. 

 Sample Ad #3 

 Now we move on to the straight-promise ad. This is the 

 rock-em, sock-em type, dominated by promise and mechanism-

 promise, which gains its power from the sheer momentum and 

 relentlessness of its claims. (See page 216.) 

 It again starts with the over-all promise (A), which it im-

 mediately follows up with a second, elaborating promise (B). 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 211 

 Then it moves directly into its fundamental definition (C), 

 which it equates in a' single phrase (then t/oti could—I) with a 

 greatly detailed promise (D), and then follows up with a beauti-

 fully condensed paragraph which consists of a transition in (2) to 

 a restatement of its fundamental redefinition (E). and out again 

 (3) to the remainder of the ad. (F>. which is sheer promise and 

 promise-mechanism from then on. 

 Here, documentation is disregarded entirely. The full weight 

 of the sale depends on the power and momentum of the promise-

 train. 

 Sample Ad #4 

 And finally, we have a beauty book. Here, the main promise-

 headline (B) is preceded by the critical authority-reference (A) 

 which: first, sets it apart from the other similar products it must 

 erase from the prospects mind: and second, brings in immedi-

 ately the key persuader of its author. (See page 220.) 

 (C) block, while promise copy, also serves the simultaneous 

 purpose of being a momentum-builder—a technique we will dis-

 cuss in a moment. 

 Using the different type faces and sizes as transitional ele-

 ments, the copy then introduces its crucial concentration copy 

 (D), in which it redefines what the woman can now expect from 

 her appearance, and in which it outdates other approaches to giv-

 ing this fulfillment to her. 

 After (1) Because ... comes the first promise-elaboration 

 block. 

 But there is no piling up of claim upon claim here. There is 

 too much ingrained skepticism in this prospect—too much aware-

 ness of other, previous claims that have disappointed her in the 

 past. This skepticism must be anticipated, and answered. This is 

 done, first (F) by agreeing with it, and then (G) bv shifting the 

 entire story onto the doctor for twelve paragraphs—bv far the 

 longest reference to authority of any of our four sample ads. 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 213 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 214 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 Then a transition (2) back to promise (H), which fills out 

 the rest of the ad. 

 See H o w the Structure Differs 

 Let me say this. Although I have not pointed out everv tran-

 sition, nor everv blending of different tvpes of copv, I have, 1 

 hope, given you enough material to see clearlv how ads differ in 

 overall structure, as they differ in content, as the demands of 

 their material differ. 

 They range from the simplest promise-elaboration (example 

 3), to the most subtle blending of all the various elements of de-

 sire, image, proof, definition and what have vou (example 2), to 

 the most complicated promise-and-proof. . . promise-and-proof 

 reinforcement (example 4). 

 Each problem demands a different structure. Each signals. 

 as you write it, that here—at this precise point— your copy has 

 left your reader. You have gone on straight when lie wants to 

 turn left. You are piling on promise after promise, when lie no 

 longer believes you. You are burving him under a sea of statis-

 tics, when he is convinced you are telling the truth, and wants 

 you to make those delicious promises all over again. 

 This is what you feel when you are writing the ad. Probablv 

 a kind of irritating confusion. A blockage. A sense that the copv 

 has suddenly gone dead, and all you are writing now is words. 

 So you stop, and think, and look for a new direction. I hope. 

 in this section, that I have given you a faint indication of what 

 some of these directions might be. 

 What, on the other hand, can vou learn from analvzing the 

 structure of your ads (or other writers') after vou have finished 

 them? 

 Primarily— what kind of ad you have written. Is it straight 

 promise? Too much documentation? Too little definition of the 

 new world of possibilities vour product has created? 

 Does it still sound too much like evervone else's copv. Or 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 215 

 product? Could you put another brand-name on it, and not make 

 any difference? 

 Have you left anything out? Will this bare promise earrv the 

 sale? Or could you increase its impact bv paving its wav with 

 some mechanism or believabilitv copv? How about a proof sec-

 tion? A use photo? A fuller description of the wav it works? 

 Mind you, this is not content alone that ice are discussing. 

 If you take the same content, and give it a new structure, you 

 are going to create a new ad. Trv it. See for yourself. If vou're 

 stuck sometime, throw awav vour headline, throw awav vour rough 

 copy flow, and start off again ISO degrees away from where you 

 started before. 

 I want to repeat this again: A new structure is a new ad. It 

 brings out new ideas. Gives vour promises new sharpness, new 

 flavor, new believabilitv and even begins to create whole new sec-

 tions that you never dreamed were there in the product before. 

 So we've come full circle. You start vour ad bv creating your 

 headline. You develop your copv storv from that headline. But if 

 the copv story doesn't develop—if vou gradually find that the 

 headline isn't really that good after all— then perhaps the very 

 elements that are begging to come out of your 6-point type should 

 be at the top of your ad. 

 This is what makes this copv writing so interesting. You're 

 always being surprised—with ideas from the most ungodly places. 

 Just make sure you've got vour eves open wide enough to catch 

 all of them. 

 Momentum—How to Draw Your Reader Deeper and 

 Deeper Into Your Copy 

 There are two other devices we should discuss. Both of them 

 help tie your ad together, though that's not their primary function. 

 The first is Momentum. How to draw your reader into vour 

 copy . . . keep him reading . . . making sure he doesn't quit vou in 

 the middle. 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 218 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 Copy's first job, of course, is to be read. If its not read, it 

 can't sell. And if you take some time to make your points—to in-

 tensify your desire, to build and rebuild vour believability, to re-

 inforce one claim with another—then you'd better make darn 

 sure that you've put plentv of momentum-builders into vour copv 

 There are two types: 

 1. Actual m o m e n t u m phrases; and 

 2. Incomplete statements, or teasers, that draw the reader 

 further into the copy in order to complete them. 

 The first type, the momentum-phrases, are time-honored. 

 They are used in almost any sort of persuasive or educational 

 writing. You insert them in your copy primarily in your transition-

 sentences, to keep interest from flagging, to indicate to vour 

 reader the general type of material that's going to follow. They 

 are "addy," but they work. H e r e are a few examples, taken from 

 the four book ads we looked at in the last section: 

 "They paid up to $22.50 a person to learn priceless 

 techniques like these:" 

 "You can learn them all, in your own home next week-

 end, without risking a penny. Here's how" 

 "Here is the information you will find in this hook." 

 "Let me explain." 

 "All I ask from you is this." 

 "What you are going to do, in the very first hour that 

 you receive the book, is this." 

 "And yet it's only the beginning." 

 "THEN put this simple trick to work for uou—that 

 VERY SAME HOUR" 

 "For example —" 

 "Read the thrilling answer below." 

 ". • . to start with . . ." 

 "Just wait till you try this." 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 THE FINAL TOUCHES 2 1 9 

 And so on. These are actual invitations to read on. H YOU 

 write long copv, thev should be spotted throughout it. 

 T h e second category of momentum-builder is much more 

 subtle, and giyes YOU thousands of waYs to keep drawing vour 

 reader along after vour developing thought. It's based on the 

 simple principle that if YOU make a statement that interests vour 

 reader, and if vou purposelv and skillinllv do not complete that 

 statement, so that there is a question of how it can be done, then 

 he will read on to find out more. 

 In other words, YOU are continuallv throughout the copv: 

 1. Creating interest in a specific point; 

 2. Raising a question in his mind about that point; and 

 3. Implying an answer to that question later in the copv. 

 H e r e are some examples of this technique: 

 "And YOU will do it often using nothing more than or-

 dinarv tap water, vour own ten fingers, and the contents 

 of vour garden and vour refrigerator." 

 "But now. when vou turn on the ignition, a modem 

 miracle of engineering science comes to life underneath your 

 hood!" 

 "Yes! Here at last is the Engineering Miracle vou Ye 

 been hearing rumors about for months. The fantastic Power-

 Booster that Continental millionaires use to soup up the 

 performance of .812,000 cars! The revolutionarv new Gas-

 Saver that actuallv gives compact-car economv to Fords. 

 Chevrolets, Plvmoutbs and dozens of other American cars 

 now driving in Europe! The sixtv-second attachment that 

 HAD TO BE BANNED from the great European race-

 ways—because it gave so much added power, so much 

 added efficiency to any car that used it— that the officials 

 were forced to rule that it gave these cars an UNFAIR AD- 

 VANTAGE over those drivers who couldn't obtain it!" 

 "How to Grow Thousands of Flowers—Without Dirty-

 ing Your Hands." 

 "Here it is at last. Authoritative medical proof that 

 men in their forties and fifties and sixties can enjov a sex 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 220 

 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 9 9 9 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 life in many ways as satisfying as when thev were in their 

 twenties— if they are only shown how to combat the hid- 

 den forces within their minds and bodies that literally drive 

 them into impotent!/!" 

 "Caught! 120 Fish in One Hour!" 

 "Just picture the scene as these college horticulturists 

 began this amazing flowering test of roses. For here gath-

 ered in a test field were all the highly-prized queens of 

 rosedom . . . rose blends that today sell for as high as 83.75 

 for a single plant. Row upon row of roses . . . prize-winners 

 in international competition . . . the best the world has to 

 offer . . . AND THEN, NEARLY-WILD STARTED TO 

 BLOOM!" 

 And so on. The objective here is to keep lite reader going — 

 for one more sentence, one more paragraph, one more sequence. 

 Notice, of course, that every one of these examples not only pro-

 duces momentum, not only raises questions in the reader's mind 

 that he virtually must read on to answer—but is also, at exactly 

 the same time, loaded with sell. Again, interweaving—making 

 each element in the ad accomplish two objectives. No waste 

 words. 

 M o o d — H o w to Pack Your Copy With D r a m a , Excitement, 

 Sincerity or Any Other Emotion You Wish 

 Now we come to the matter of words—and the color which 

 words create. 

 I have given you dozens of different examples in this book 

 of selling copy. All these examples had certain elements in com-

 mon—they were strong, successful, convincing and so on. But, 

 at the same time, each of these copy blocks differed from the 

 others in one immediately apparent way—in the mood that each 

 set, simply by the rhythm and words that the copy writer used 

 to express his thoughts. 

 Words and rhythms. They are to the copy writer what line 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 223 

 and color are to the painter. They set the mood of your story— 

 carry the emotion so subtly that vour reader never really realizes 

 where the excitement or the image or the conviction is actually 

 coming from. 

 For example, here are several of the passages we've looked 

 at before. Now let's italicize the mood-builders within them, that 

 make each so different from the others: 

 Objective: to emphasize color, beauty, excitement, visual 

 image: 

 And when that third precious ingredient reaches those 

 buds—then that very morning vou will open the door to 

 vour house—AND YOU WILL BE BLINDED BY THE 

 EXPLOSION OF COLOR THAT GREETS YOU IN YOUR 

 GARDEN! . . . You will see rose bushes weighted down by- 

 masses of blossoms, of a richness and perfume and color 

 you have never imagined before! You will walk past solid, 

 blazing rows of chrysanthemums so thick that you can't 

 even see a leaf in between. . . . 

 Notice that you don't even distinguish many of the separate 

 images until they are called to vour attention. Notice also that 

 some of the words are primarily visual image-sharpeners (weighted 

 down . . . solid, blazing rows . . . so thick you can't even see a leaf 

 in between). While others convey, not image, but emotion (pre-

 cious . . . that very morning . . . blinded . . . greets . . . you never 

 imagined before). 

 These words are emotion-definers. They tell the reader what 

 to feel about the images and ideas you are presenting to him. 

 Their very essence is that they are so subtle that he does not see 

 them . . . that thev do not call attention to themselves, but simply 

 flavor and evaluate the images your copy is forming in his mind. 

 Certain classes of readers will notice these emotion definers. 

 W h e n they do, your copy becomes either questionable or corny to 

 them, and vou have lost them. Therefore, vou have to know al-

 ways whom you are writing for. What their level of sophistication 

 is—in tone as well as product-awareness. And vou may have to 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 ^ Z 4 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 change your tone when you take the same ad from one class of 

 media to another—down as well as up. 

 Of course, when everybody sees vour emotion words, then 

 you've got a bad ad, and you'd better rewrite, fast. 

 And don't forget the rhythms. Read the ad out loud. See 

 how you can almost scan it, as though it were close to blank-

 verse. This richness of rhythm parallels the richness of image— 

 helps build the excitement and sensuousness of the mood. 

 Now let's look at another piece of pounding copv, and see 

 how words and rhvthms add to the power and m o m e n t u m that 

 are put behind its staccato stream of claims: 

 "This letter says that if you could onlv liberate the 

 exact same talent and intelligence and abilitv that vou have 

 tied up inside you today —then you could: 

 "read anything you wish, twice as fast as vou can read 

 it t o d a y . . . " 

 "absorb facts like a sponge, and repeat them almost 

 word for word years later . . . 

 "flash through math, business, financial problems that 

 have you stopped cold todav. . . 

 "hold people spellbound with the power of vour speech 

 and your written word . . . 

 "out-think others when you have to. tower over them 

 in judgement, outshine them completely in imagination . . ." 

 H e r e again, there are two types of emotion-definers. The 

 power words (liberate . . . hold spellbound . . . out-think . . . tower 

 over . . . outshine completely), which build a subconscious current 

 of potency that permeates each individual claim as it occurs in 

 the copy. And the frankness, man-to-man, lets-let-our-hair-down 

 tone-builders (this letter says . . . tied up inside vou . . . like a 

 sponge . . . stopped cold) that say silently that there's no nonsense 

 here, no high-faluting phrases—just common-sense which can be 

 absorbed bv anvone. 

 And, of course, the machine-gun rhvthm. Short, choppy 

 sentences. Verb . . . verb . . . verb. Claim . . . claim . . . claim. Pro-

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 

 225 

 pelling the reader through the copy. Piling promise upon prom-

 ise, image upon image in an attempt to overwhelm him. 

 Notice especially the vast difference between these two 

 highly-successful pieces of copy. Their vocabulary, the type of 

 emotions they strive to arouse, the images they use, the models 

 of speech they borrow, the length of sentence and paragraph, the 

 ratio of adjectives to nouns and verbs, etc. 

 We could go on, of course. Go back to the Volkswagen copy, 

 and see how the emotional tone of sincerity is conveyed by the 

 absence of adjectives, in all the places you'd ordinarily expect to 

 find them. As well as whimsey. a continuous self-kidding, which 

 builds, first, a sort of corporate affection, and then trust. 

 Try the fire injector ad again. Notice how the long, rather 

 clumsv sentences give a feeling of ingenuousness and reason to 

 the copy Try to read them out loud. You can't. They don't scan; 

 they have no definable rlrythm: they don't look like a "copy writer" 

 wrote them at all. And, of course, there is the same straight-

 from-the-shoulder phraseology, to reinforce this feeling of hon-

 est appraisal. 

 All this, I repeat, is done unconsciously. You do not see it 

 unless vou look for it. And sometimes you have to dig very deep 

 indeed to get every piece of it. 

 Mood-building is deliberate on the part of the copywriter— 

 unnoticed on the part of his reader. As with so much of the 

 rest of the ad, it lies underneath the surface, to do its work 

 imperceptibly. 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com

www.getwsodo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EPILOGUE 

 A COPY WRITER'S 

 LIBRARY 

 I have now given you what I've 

 learned about writing copy. It has taken many years to learn it— 

 three more to set it down to my own satisfaction. I hope it will 

 help vou in the onlv way that really counts: to do a better job 

 and make a little more money. 

 There are, of course, manv many men in this industry who 

 know far more about these techniques, and who can produce far 

 better copy than I. Mv excuse for writing this book is that they 

 don't seem to have included—at least to my present knowledge— 

 manv of the specific techniques which I've discussed with you 

 here. 

 Some of them' have written books on the subject—great 

 books—and I'd like to list them here for you. I think you should 

 buy and read, every one of them, and then thumb through them 

 again everv year or so, just to catch what you may have forgotten. 

 Here they are: 

 Indispensable, of course, is Julian Watkins' great anthology: 

 The 100 Greatest Advertisements, Moore Publishing, 1949. 

 227 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 www.getwsodo.com 

 228 

 E P I L O G U E — A COPY W R I T E R S LIBRARY 

 Claude Hopkins wrote a great book, My Life in Advertising, 

 Harper, 1927. Make them dig it up for you. And see if vou can't 

 get some of the old Hopkins ads. 

 John E. Kennedy (not F.) wrote a little pamphlet manv years 

 ago called Intensive Advertising, which has just been republished 

 by Printer's Ink. Get it. It'll be the most profitable evening's read-

 ing you've ever done. 

 J. K. Lasker, who worked with both these great writers, never 

 wrote anything himself. But he did give a series of talks before 

 his staff one week, and Printers Ink has again captured them. 

 They're called The Lasker Story. 

 Robert Collier's Letter Book is published bv Prentice-Hall. 

 It's a gold mine. 

 David Ogilw wrote Confessions of an Advertising Man, which 

 you can buv as a paperback. Charming and wonderfully prof-

 itable. 

 Rosser Reeves' very short book, Reality in Advertising, is 

 published by Knopf, and must be read several times before vou 

 get everything out of it vou should. 

 Milton Biow's book, Butting In, is marvelous in the first half, 

 repetitive in the second. 

 And don't forget Campbell's book, Writing Non-Fiction. Or 

 those by Caples. Young, Glim and Bedell. Or the motivation re-

 search books bv Dichter and Martineau. Or the great book on 

 layout, Visual Persuasion, bv Baker. 

 Then there are the books on American society' todav—bv 

 Mills, Riesman, Fromm, Kardiner and all the rest. And the ar-

 ticles on the emerging trends in the media. And the media them-

 selves. And of course—your primarv source—the ads themselves. 

 Keep reading. Keep analvzing. Keep writing. Keep looking 

 for the new idea—the million dollars hidden somewhere in that 

 typewriter of yours. Always shoot for the moon—it's one of the 

 few real thrills left today!